1. Write a hashtag that describes the major event of each of the following stages of the cell cycle:  
	1. G1 phase
		- Growth
	2. S phase 
		- Synthesis
	3. G2 phase
		- Prep
2. Cells can enter a non dividing phase known as G0. Explain how it is possible for a cell to enter and exit this non dividing phase of the cell cycle.
	- When enough of a certain signal is present it will exit. But otherwise it will be in G0 because it is not ready to grow yet
3. Describe what the goal of mitosis is. Identify two instances in which the cells of an organism would undergo this process.
	- Split the cell into two
4. Explain the difference between haploid and diploid chromosome numbers.
	- Haploids only have one of each chromosome while diploids have two
5. Draw a picture to illustrate the difference between a chromatid and a chromosome.
	- chromatid is just one wing of the butterfly
6. Create a Venn Diagram that shows the relationship among these terms:  DNA, gene, genome, chromatin, chromosome, chromatid.
	- gene on genome on chromatin on chromatic on chromosome which makes up DNA
7. The term “mitosis” is Greek in origin and means “division of the nucleus.”  Explain how the steps of this process fit the definition of the word.
	- PMAT, the cell splits into two
8. Explain how the spindle apparatus ensures that daughter cells receive a full copy of the genetic material of the parent cell.
	- It pulls apart two exact copies of the DNA in chromatids
9. The cell cycle is regulated by several checkpoints as well as a class of specialized protein kinases known as cyclin-dependent kinases. Explain how cyclin and the cyclin-dependent kinase interact to propel a cell through the cell cycle.
	- Different levels of CDKs trigger and begin different stages of the cell cycle
10. The cell cycle is controlled by a multitude of factors.  Explain the role of each of the following in ensuring that cells divide appropriately.  
	1. G1
		- Cell size
		- Nutrients
		- DNA health
	2. S
		- DNA replication
	3. G2
		- Cell size
		- DNA
	4. M
		- Spindle attachment
11. Compare and contrast healthy cell division with cancer development.
	- Dying when stuff is wrong, stopping cell growth when cell is too small