# 1

A strange science-fiction battle takes on a tiny moon in deep space; here, the moon is so small that we can completely ignore gravity. A deranged invading space monster of given mass $28.2~ kg$ kicks off a rocky structure to achieve a horizontal speed of $3.45~ m/s$ directly toward a startled space cadet. The cadet is braced firmly on the surface of the moon and is armed with a rapid-fire automatic marshmallow blaster gun which fires multiple sticky marshmallows toward the monster, each of mass $11.5 ~g$ and each with a speed of $53.4~ m/s$. The cadet attempts to stop the monster with the marshmallow gun, slowing the monster down by hitting the monster with marshmallow after marshmallow until the monster is finally brought to a stop. How many marshmallows will the cadet have to fire at the monster to stop the monster’s horizontal motion? (Assume each fired marshmallow harmlessly sticks to the monster. Assume that the monster is flying horizontally, with no vertical motion and no friction or other forces on the monster except for those due to the collision with the marshmallows. Explain your work. Indicate what Physics Concept (law of physics) you used to solve this problem.

> [!answer]

# 2

A medicine ball with given mass $M = 8.11~kg$ drops vertically, eventually hitting the floor. Just before impact, the ball has a given downward speed of $5.11~ m/s$. It then rebounds straight back with a given upward speed of $4.42~ m/s$.

## a

What is conserved with respect to the system that is defined as the medicine ball during the entire collision? Is Mechanical Energy Conserved? Is Linear Momentum Conserved? Explain how you know this?

## b

What is the total impulse imparted to the ball as a result of contact with the floor?

## c

 If the ball is in contact for a time interval $\Delta t = 0.056 s$, what is the average force exerted on the floor during this collision?

# 3

You are driving a car that is moves with constant given speed $V$ . Your mass is given as m and the mass of the car (not including yourself) is given as $M$ . The road is completely flat and level. The car enters a curve in the road that can be described as a circular arc with given radius $R$ as shown above in a “bird’s-eye” view of the path of the car. Assume you are properly secured into your seat as you drive.

## a

What is the magnitude of the net force on you, the driver, as you go around the curve? Explain how you know this.

## b

A student says:

> “As the car comes around the curve, there must be a net force on the driver to the driver’s right. In other words, the net force points away from the center of the circle.”

Is the student correct or incorrect? Explain how you know this.

## c

What is the magnitude of the force of friction on the car due to the road as you go around the curve? Hint: it is not zero. Explain how you know this?

## d

What is the Total Work done by all forces on the car as it moves on the curve from point $P$ (corresponding to where the car enters the curve) to the point $Q$ (corresponding to where the car leaves the curve)? Explain how you know this? Important: you must use one or more Physics Concept(s) here

# 4

A constant given torque $\tau$ of $0.073$ Newton-meters is applied to a free-spinning bicycle wheel of mass $m = 4.3~ kg$, radius $R$ of $0.27 m$ as shown. The rotational inertia of the wheel is given by the expression: $I = mR^2$.

## a

What is the angular acceleration of the wheel? (Hint: Use the rotational analog of Newton’s 2nd Law).

## b

Assuming the wheel starts at rest, how much time will it take for the wheel to be spun to a final rotational velocity of $\omega = 22.2$ radians/second? (Hint: This is analogous to translational motion with constant acceleration).

## c

A small piece of mud is stuck to the outside edge of of the wheel. What is the centripetal acceleration on the piece of mud after time $T = 5.0 s$ torque have been applied? (Hint: find the angular velocity, and then consider the piece of mud as instantaneously moving with Uniform Circular Motion).

# 5

Consider a hypothetical future space station that consists of a torus attached by spokes to a central hub as show above. Suppose the space station has an given initial angular speed of $\omega_0$ and a rotational inertia $I = CM R^2$ where $M$ is the given mass of the space station, $R$ is the given outer radius of the torus, and $C$ is a given numerical constant. In this situation, the space engineers need to repair the station and in order to do this, they need to stop the rotation and bring the station to rest. Therefore, the engineers affix two large thrusters to the space station as shown. Each thruster is attached to a fixed position on the space station corresponding to a given distance $r$ from the center and at a given angle $\phi$ relative to the radial direction. When activated, each thruster will result in a force of given constant magnitude $F_{app}$ applied to the station as shown. Note that a coordinate system is given here, with x-direction corresponding to the right, y-direction corresponding to the top of the page, and z-direction corresponding to out of the page.

## a

What is the magnitude of the total torque $\tau$ applied to the space station that results from the action of both of the thrusters? Give your answer in terms of given parameters only. Explain your work.

## b

