---
date created: 2024-01-26 20:23
date updated: 2024-01-27 17:23
---

# 2.1

## 2

Represent the common form of each argument using letters to stand for component sentences, and fill in the blanks so that the argument in part (b) has the same logical form as the argument in part (a).

### a

If all computer programs contain errors, then this program contains an error. This program does not contain an error. Therefore, it is not the case that all computer programs contain errors.

> [!answer]
> Let $A
> Let $a$ be the statement "Computer programs contain errors"
> If all $a$, then 

### b

If \_\_\_\_ then \_\_\_\_. 2 is not odd. Therefore, it is not the case that all prime numbers are odd.



## 5

Indicate which of the following sentences are statements.

### b

She is a mathematics major.

### c

$128=2^6$

## 8

Write the statements in symbolic form using the symbols $\sim,\land,\lor$ and the indicated letters to represent component statements.

Let $h=$“John is healthy,” $w=$“John is wealthy,” and $s=“John is wise.”

### b

John is not wealthy but he is healthy and wise.

### e

John is wealthy, but he is not both healthy and wise.

## 10

Let $p$ be the statement “DATAENDFLAG is off,” $q$ the statement “ERROR equals 0,” and $r$ the statement “SUM is less than 1,000.” Express the following sentences in symbolic notation.

### b

DATAENDFLAG is off but ERROR is not equal to 0.

### e

Either DATAENDFLAG is on or it is the case that both ERROR equals 0 and SUM is less than 1,000.

## 15

Write truth tables for the statement $p\land(\sim q\lor r)$

## 19-24

Determine whether the statements are logically equivalent. Construct a truth table and include a sentence justifying your answer. Your sentence should show that you understand the meaning of logical equivalence.

### 19

$p\land \mathbf t$ and $p$

### 20

$p\land\mathbf c$ and $p\lor\mathbf c$

### 22

$p\land(q\lor r)$ and $(p\land q)\lor(p\land r)$

### 24

$(p\lor q)\lor(p\land r)$ and $(p\lor q)\land r$

## 29

Use De Morgan’s laws to write negations for the statement
"This computer program has a logical error in the first ten lines or it is being run with an incomplete data set."

## 35

Assume x is a particular real number and use De Morgan’s laws to write negations for the statement
$x\le-1$ or $x>1$

## 43

Use truth tables to establish if the statement form is a tautology and if it is a contradiction.

$(\sim p\lor q)\lor (p\land\sim q)$

## 49

A logical equivalence is derived from Theorem 2.1.1. Supply a reason for each step.

$(p\lor\sim q)\land(\sim p\lor\sim q)$
$\qquad \equiv(\sim q\lor p)\land(\sim q\lor\sim p)$
$\qquad \equiv\sim q\lor(p\land\sim p)$
$\qquad \equiv\sim q\lor\mathbf c$
$\qquad \equiv\sim q$
Therefore, $(p\lor\sim q)\land(\sim p\lor\sim q)\equiv \sim q$

## 51

Use Theorem 2.1.1 to verify the logical equivalence. Supply a reason for each step.

$p\land(\sim q\lor p)\equiv p$

# 2.2

## 2

Rewrite the statement in if-then form

I am on time for work if I catch the 8:05 bus

## 8

Construct truth tables for the statement form

$\sim p\lor q\to r$

## 14

### b

$p\to q\lor r\equiv p\land \sim q\to r\equiv p\land\sim r\to q$

Use the logical equivalences above to rewrite the following sentence in two different ways. (Assume that n represents a fixed integer.)

If n is prime, then n is odd or n is 2.

## 20

Write negations for each of the following statements. (Assume that all variables represent fixed quantities or entities, as appropriate.)

### b

If today is New Year’s Eve, then tomorrow is January.

### e

If x is non-negative, then x is positive or x is 0.

## 22

Write contrapositives for the statements

### b

If today is New Year’s Eve, then tomorrow is January.

### e

If x is non-negative, then x is positive or x is 0.

## 23

Write the converse and inverse for each statement

### b

If today is New Year’s Eve, then tomorrow is January.

### e

If x is non-negative, then x is positive or x is 0.

## 27

Use truth tables to establish the truth of this statement

The converse and inverse of a conditional statement are logically equivalent to each other.

## 30

If statement forms $P$ and $Q$ are logically equivalent, then $P\iff Q$ is a tautology. Conversely, if $P\iff Q$ is a tautology, then $P$ and $Q$ are logically equivalent. Use $\iff$ to convert the logical equivalence to a tautology. Then use a truth table to verify each tautology.

$p\land (q\lor r)\equiv (p\land q)\lor(p\land r)$

## 41

Rewrite the statement in if-then form

Having two 45° angles is a sufficient condition for this triangle to be a right triangle.

## 46

“If compound X is boiling, then its temperature must be at least 150°C.” Assuming that this statement is true, which of the following must also be true?

### c

Compound X will boil only if its temperature is at least 150°C.

### d

If compound X is not boiling, then its temperature is less than 150°C.

# 2.3

## 4

Use modus ponens or modus tollens to fill in the blanks in the argument so as to produce valid inferences.

If this graph can be colored with three colors, then it can colored with four colors. This graph cannot be colored with four colors.

## 9

Use truth tables to determine whether the argument form is valid. Indicate which columns represent the premises and which represent the conclusion, and include a sentence explaining how the truth table supports your answer. Your explanation should show that you understand what it means for a form of argument to be valid or invalid.

$p\land q\to \sim r$
$p\lor \sim q$
$\sim q\to p$
$\therefore \sim r$

## 23

Use symbols to write the logical form of each argument, and then use a truth table to test the argument for validity. Indicate which columns represent the premises and which represent the conclusion, and include a few words of explanation showing that you understand the meaning of validity.

Oleg is a math major or Oleg is an economics major.
If Oleg is a math major, then Oleg is required to take Math 362.
$\therefore$ Oleg is an economics major or Oleg is not required to take Math 362.

## 29-32

Some of the arguments in 29–32 are valid, whereas others exhibit the converse or the inverse error. Use symbols to write the logical form of each argument. If the argument is valid, identify the rule of inference that guarantees its validity. Otherwise, state whether the converse or the inverse error is made.

### 29

If at least one of these two numbers is divisible by 6, then the product of these two numbers is divisible by 6.
Neither of these two numbers is divisible by 6.
$\therefore$ The product of these two numbers is not divisible by 6.

### 32

If I get a Christmas bonus, I’ll buy a stereo.
If I sell my motorcycle, I’ll buy a stereo.
$\therefore$ If I get a Christmas bonus or I sell my motorcycle, then I’ll buy a stereo.

## 40

Sharky, a leader of the underworld, was killed by one of his own band of four henchmen. Detective Sharp interviewed the men and determined that all were lying except for one. He deduced who killed Sharky on the basis of the following statements:

1. Socko: Lefty killed Sharky.
2. Fats: Muscles didn’t kill Sharky.
3. Lefty: Muscles was shooting craps with Socko when Sharky was knocked off.
4. Muscles: Lefty didn’t kill Sharky.

Who did kill Sharky?

## 44

A set of premises and a conclusion are given. Use the valid argument forms listed in Table 2.3.1 to deduce the conclusion from the premises, giving a reason for each step as in Example 2.3.8. Assume all variables are statement variables.

1. $p\to q$
2. $r\lor s$
3. $\sim s\to\sim t$
4. $\sim q\lor s$
5. $\sim s$
6. $\sim q\land r\to u$
7. $w\lor t$
8. $\therefore u\land w$
