---
date created: 2024-01-26 20:27
date updated: 2024-01-28 23:51
---

# 4.1

## 9-11

Prove the statements in 9–11.

### 9

There is a real number $x$ such that $x>1$ and $2^x>x^{10}$.

> [!answer]
> This is true iff there is an $x$ that satisfies the constraint.
> This $x$ exists as:
> $x\in(1,1.078)$
> True by proof by existence

### 11

There is an integer $n$ such that $2n^2-5n+2$ is prime.

> [!answer]
> $n=0$ satisfies the constraint and thus proves that the statement is true at least once.
> True by proof by existence

## 25

The statement is true. For each, (a) rewrite the statement with the quantification implicit as If \_\_\_\_, then \_\_\_\_, and (b) write the first sentence of a proof (the “starting point”) and the last sentence of a proof (the “conclusion to be shown”).
(Note that you do not need to understand the statements in order to be able to do these exercises.)

For all integers $m$ and $n$, if $mn=1$ then $m=n=1$  or $m=n=-1$.

> [!answer]
> If the product of any two integers is 1, then the two integers must both be $1$ or both $-1$
> 
> Proof:
> Suppose $m$ and $n$ are both integers such that $mn=1$
> Conclusion:
> $m=n=1$ or $m=n=-1$

# 4.2

## 13

Prove that the statement is false

There exists an integer $n$ such that $6n^2+27$ is prime.

> [!answer]
> Suppose there is an integer $n$ such that $6n^2+27$ is prime.
> $6n^2+27$ is prime,
> therefore $3(2n^2+9)$ should also be prime
> By the definition of a prime, it should not be composable of multiple different non-1 integers.
> $6n^2+27$ could be composed into $3$ and $2n^2+9$
> $3\in\mathbf Z$
> $2n^2$ is positive when $n\in\mathbf Z$
> $2n^2+9\in\mathbf Z$
> Also when $n\in\mathbf Z$, as $2n^2+9\ge 9$ therefore $3\ne2n^2+9$
> 
> Thus, $6n^2+27$ may be composed into $3$ and $2n^2+9$ both of which are distinct integers, making it non-prime
> Proof by contradiction.

## 27

Determine whether the statement is true or false. Justify your answer with a proof or a counterexample, as appropriate. In each case use only the definitions of the terms and the assumptions listed on page 161, not any previously established properties.

The difference of any two odd integers is even.

> [!answer]
> Given odd integers $n$, $m$
> Integers $k$, $l$ exist such that
>> $n=2k+1$ and $m=2l+1$ by definition of odd
>
> $m-n=2l-1-(2k-1)$ By substitution
> $m-n=2l-2k$ By algebraic laws
> $m-n=2(l-k)$ By distributive property of integers
> Integer $j$ exists such that $j=l-k$
> $m-n=2j$ By substitution
> Thus $m-n$ is even

# 4.3

## 2-7

The numbers in 2–7 are rational. Write each number as a ratio of two integers.

### 2

$4.6037$

> [!answer]
> $4.7037=\frac{47037}{10000}$

### 7

$52.4\overline{6721}$

> [!answer]
> $52.4\overline{6721}=52.4+0.0\overline{6721}$
> $=\frac{524}{10}+\frac{6721}{99990}$
> $=\frac{5246197}{99990}$

# 4.4

## 5

Give a reason for your answer in each of 1–13. assume that all variables represent integers.

Is $6m(2m+10)$ divisible by $4$?

> [!answer]
> Yes
> Proof:
> Given $m\in\mathbf Z$
> Let $n=6m(2m+10)$
> $n=6m(2m+10)=4(3m(m+5))$ By algebraic laws
> $3m(m+5)$ Is an integer as integers are closed on addition and multiplication
> Let $l=3m(m+5)\in\mathbf Z$
> $n=4l$ where $l\in\mathbf Z$
> $4\ne 0$, $l\in\mathbf Z$, and $6m(2m+10)=4l\iff4|6m(2m+10)$

## 16

Prove the statement directly from the definition of divisibility.

For all integers $a,b,c$ if $a|b$ then $a|c$ then $a|(b-c)$.

> [!answer]
> Given: $a,b,c\in\mathbf Z$, $a|b$, $a|c$
> Proof:
> $a|b\iff\exists k\in\mathbf Z,a\ne0,ak=b$
> $a|c\iff\exists l\in\mathbf Z,a\ne0,al=c$
> $ak=b,al=c\iff ak-al=b-c$ Algebraic laws
> $\iff a(k-l)=b-c$
> Let $j=k-l$, $j\in\mathbf Z$ Integers are closed on subtraction
> $j\in\mathbf Z,a\ne0,aj=b-c\iff a|b-c$
> Thus $a|b-c$

## 21

For the statement, determine whether the statement is true or false. Prove the statement directly from the definitions if it is true, and give a counterexample if it is false.

The product of any two even integers is a multiple of $4$.

> [!answer]
> Given: Even integers $m,n$
> Proof:
> $\exists k\in\mathbf Z,2k=m$ by def of even
> $\exists l\in\mathbf Z,2l=n$ by def of even
> $mn=(2k)(2l)$ by substitution
> $mn=4kl$ by substitution
> Let $j=kl$, $j\in\mathbf Z$ integers are closed on multiplication
> $mn=4j,4\ne 0,j\in\mathbf Z\iff4|mn$
> Thus $4|mn$

## 35

Two athletes run a circular track at a steady pace so that the first completes one round in 8 minutes and the second in 10 minutes. If they both start from the same spot at 4 p.m., when will be the first time they return to the start together?


