---
date created: 2024-01-26 20:28
date updated: 2024-01-28 23:51
---

# 5.2

## 3

For each positive integer $n$, let $P(n)$ be the formula

$1^2+2^2+...+n^2= \frac{n(n+1)(2n+1)}{6}$

### a

Write $P(1)$. Is $P(1)$ true?

> [!answer]
> $1^2=\frac{1(2)(3)}{6}$
> $1=1$
> True

### b

Write $P(k)$

> [!answer]
> $1^2+2^2+...+k^2= \frac{k(k+1)(2k+1)}{6}$

### c

Write $P(k+1)$

> [!answer]
> $1^2+2^2+...+(k+1)^2= \frac{(k+1)(k+2)(2k+3)}{6}$

### d

In a proof by mathematical induction that the formula holds for every integer $n\ge 1$, what must be shown in the inductive step?

> [!answer]
> We must show that given:
> $1^2+2^2+...+k^2= \frac{k(k+1)(2k+1)}{6}$,
> $1^2+2^2+...+(k+1)^2= \frac{(k+1)(k+2)(2k+3)}{6}$
> Is true.

## 7

Prove the statement using mathematical induction. Do not derive them from theorem 5.2.1 or theorem 5.2.2.

For every integer $n\ge1$
$1+6+11+16+...+(5n-4)= \frac{n(5n-3)}{2}$

> [!answer]
> Let $P(n)\iff1+6+11+16+...+(5n-4)= \frac{n(5n-3)}{2}$
> 
> $P(1)\iff1=\frac{2}{2}=1$
> $P(1)=\mathbf t$
> 
> Given $P(k)\iff1+6+11+16+...+(5k-4)= \frac{k(5k-3)}{2}$
> We must prove $P(k)\to P(k+1)$
> $1+6+11+16+...+(5k-4)+(5k+1)=1+6+11+16+...+(5(k+1)-4)$
> $1+6+11+16+...+(5(k+1)-4)=\frac{k(5k-3)}{2}+5k+1$
> $=\frac{(k+1)(5(k+1)-3)}{2}$
> $1+6+11+16+...+(5(k+1)-4)=\frac{(k+1)(5(k+1)-3)}{2}$
> $\therefore P(k)\to P(k+1)$
> 
> $P(1),P(k)\to P(k+1)$
> $\therefore \forall n\ge1\in\mathbf Z:P(n)$
> $\square$

## 12

Prove the statement using mathematical induction.

$\frac{1}{1\cdot 2}+\frac{1}{2\cdot 3}+...+\frac{1}{n(n+1)}=\frac{n}{n+1}$ for every integer $n\ge 1$

> [!answer]
> Let $P(n)\iff \frac{1}{1\cdot 2}+\frac{1}{2\cdot 3}+...+\frac{1}{n(n+1)}=\frac{n}{n+1}$
> 
> $P(1)\iff \frac{1}{2}=\frac{1}{2}\iff\mathbf t$
> 
> Given $P(k)$,
> $\frac{1}{1\cdot 2}+\frac{1}{2\cdot 3}+...+\frac{1}{k(k+1)}=\frac{k}{k+1}$
> $\frac{1}{1\cdot 2}+\frac{1}{2\cdot 3}+...+\frac{1}{k(k+1)}+\frac{1}{(k+1)(k+2)}=\frac{k}{k+1}+\frac{1}{(k+1)(k+2)}$
> $\frac{k}{k+1}+\frac{1}{(k+1)(k+2)}=\frac{(k+2)k+1}{(k+1)(k+2)}$
> $=\frac{k^2+2k+1}{(k+1)(k+2)}$
> $=\frac{k+1}{k+1+1}$
> $\therefore P(k)\to P(k+1)$
> 
> $P(1),P(k)\to P(k+1)$
> $\therefore \forall n\ge1\in\mathbf Z:P(n)$
> $\square$

## 29

Use the formula for the sum of the first $n$ integers and/or the formula for the sum of a geometric sequence to evaluate the sum or to write it in closed form.

$1-2+2^2-2^3+...+(-1)^n2^n$ where $n$ is any positive integer

> [!answer]
> $1-2+2^2-2^3+...+(-1)^n2^n=\sum\limits_{k=0}^n(-2)^k$
> $\sum\limits_{k=0}^n(-2)^k=\frac{1-(-2)^n}{3}$
> $\square$

# 5.3

## 4

For each positive integer $n$, let $P(n)$ be the sentence that describes the following divisibility property:

$5^n-1$ is divisible by $4$.

### a

Write $P(0)$. Is $P(0)$ true?

> [!answer]
> $P(0)=0\vert 4$
> Yes, it is true

### b

Write $P(k)$

> [!answer]
> $5^k-1\vert 4$

### c

Write $P(k+1)$

> [!answer]
> $5^{k+1}-1\vert 4$

### d

In a proof by mathematical induction that this divisibility property holds for every integer $n\ge0$, what must be shown in the inductive step?

> [!answer]
> We must show that given $P(k)$, $P(k+1)$
> 
> $\exists n\in\mathbf Z$
> $5^k-1=4n$ Properties of divisibility
> $5^k=4n+1$
> $5^{k+1}=20n+5$
> $5^{k+1}=4(5n+1)+1$
> $5^{k+1}-1=4(5n+1)$
> $m=5n+1:m\in\mathbf Z$ Integers are closed on multiplication and addition
> $5^{k+1}-1=4m$
> $5^{k+1}-1\vert4$ Properties of divisibility
> $\therefore P(0), P(k)\to P(k+1)$
> $\square$

## 7

For each positive integer $n$, let $P(n)$ be the sentence

In any round-robin tournament involving $n$ teams, the teams can be labeled $T_1,T_2,T_3,...,T_n$, so that $T_i$ beats $T_{i+1}$ for every $i=1,2,...,n$.

### a

Write $P(2)$. Is $P(2)$ true?

> [!answer]
> We can have two teams labeled:
> $T_1,T_2$
> We can organize these teams in such a way that:
> $T_i$ beats $T_{i+1}$ for every $i$
> The winner of the only match will be $T_1$
> True.

### b

Write $P(k)$.

> [!answer]
> In any round-robin tournament involving $k$ teams, the teams can be labeled $T_1,T_2,T_3,...,T_k$, so that $T_i$ beats $T_{i+1}$ for every $i=1,2,...,k$.

### c

Write $P(k+1)$

> [!answer]
> In any round-robin tournament involving $k+1$ teams, the teams can be labeled $T_1,T_2,T_3,...,T_{k+1}$, so that $T_i$ beats $T_{i+1}$ for every $i=1,2,...,k+1$.

### d

In a proof by mathematical induction that $P(n)$ is true for each integer $n\ge2$, what must be shown in the inductive step?

> [!answer]
> That given that:
> "In any round-robin tournament involving $k$ teams, the teams can be labeled $T_1,T_2,T_3,...,T_k$, so that $T_i$ beats $T_{i+1}$ for every $i=1,2,...,k$",
> "In any round-robin tournament involving $k+1$ teams, the teams can be labeled $T_1,T_2,T_3,...,T_{k+1}$, so that $T_i$ beats $T_{i+1}$ for every $i=1,2,...,k+1$"
> must be true.

## 15

Prove the statement by mathematical induction

$n(n^2+5)$ is divisible by $6$, for each integer $n\ge0$

> [!answer]
> Let $P(n)$ be the statement $n(n^2+5)\vert 6$
> $P(0)=0\vert 6$, is true
> 
> Given $P(k)=k(k^2+5)\vert 6$,
> $\exists m\in\mathbf Z$
> $k(k^2+5)=6m$
> $k(k^2+5)+2k^2+k=6m+2k^2+k$
> $k((k+1)^2+5)=6m+2k^2+k$
> $(k+1)((k+1)^2+5)=6m+2k^2+k+((k+1)^2+5)$
> $(k+1)((k+1)^2+5)=6m+3k(k+1)+6$
> $(k+1)((k+1)^2+5)=6(m+1)+3k(k+1)$
> 
> Via modulus math, $k$ or $k+1$ must $\vert2$ as it covers all integer cases mod 2 given $k\in\mathbf Z$
> $k(k+1)\vert2$ as one of the factors must $|2$ and both factors are integers
> 
> $(k+1)((k+1)^2+5)=6(m+1)+3k(k+1)$
> $m+1\in\mathbf Z\to6(m+1)\vert 6$
> $k(k+1)\vert 2\to3k(k+1)\vert 6$
> $\to 6(m+1)+3k(k+1)\vert6$
> $\iff(k+1)((k+1)^2+5)\vert 6$
> 
> $\therefore P(k)\to P(k+1)$
> 
> $P(0),P(k)\to P(k+1)$
> $\therefore \forall n\ge0\in\mathbf Z:P(n)$

# 5.4

## 10

The introductory example solved with ordinary mathematical induction in Section 5.3 can also be solved using strong mathematical induction. Let $P(n)$ be “any n¢ can be obtained using a combination of 3¢ and 5¢ coins.” Use strong mathematical induction to prove that $P(n)$ is true for every integer $n\ge8$.

> [!answer]
> $P(8)=3+5$
> $P(9)=3+3+3$
> $P(10)=5+5$
> 
> Given $\forall n>k\ge8:P(k)$
> $P(n)$ is true if $P(n-5)$ or $P(n-3)$ as it can be factored adding a 3 or 5 coin.
> $\therefore P(n)\to P(n+3)$
> 
> $P(8),P(9),P(10),P(n)\to P(n+3)$
> $\therefore \forall n\ge8\in\mathbf Z:P(n)$

## 13

Use strong mathematical induction to prove the existence part of the unique factorization of integers theorem (Theorem 4.4.5). In other words, prove that every integer greater than $1$ is either a prime number or a product of prime numbers.

> [!answer]
> Let $Q(n)$ be the statement that $n\in\mathbf Z$ is prime
> Let $P(n)$ be the statement that $n\in\mathbf Z$ is prime or can be represented by a product of prime numbers
> 
> Assuming $\forall k\in\mathbf Z:2\le k<n,P(k)$
> Either $n$ is divisible by any number, or $n$ is not divisible by any number
> 
> If $n$ is divisible by any number $m>1$,
> $n\vert m\to m< n$
> $m<n\to P(m)$
> $\frac{n}{m}<n\to P\left( \frac{n}{m} \right)$
> Since $n$ can be composited into $m, \frac{n}{m}$, $n$ will have all the factors of $m$ and $\frac{n}{m}$ as multiplication is communicative, any satisfactory $m$ will ultimately give the same factors, thus $P(n)$
> 
> If $n$ is not divisible by any number
> $n$ is prime and can only be factorized as itself, thus $P(n)$
> 
> $\square$
 
## 16

Use strong mathematical induction to prove that for every integer $n\ge2$, if $n$ is even, then any sum of $n$ odd integers is even, and if $n$ is odd, then any sum of $n$ odd integers is odd.

> [!answer]
> $\forall P_1,P_2,...,P_n:P=[P_1,...,P_n]$ where $\forall k:P_k$ is odd
> Let $S_P$ represent $\sum\limits_{k=1}^nP_k$
> $\sum\limits_{k=1}^nP'_k\in\mathbf Z$ as integers are closed on addition
> $\forall n,\exists P'_n:P_n=2P'_n+1$ as $P_k$ are odd
> Let $P'=[P'_1,...,P'_n]$
> Thus, $S_P=n+2\sum\limits_{k=1}^nP'_k$
> 
> If $n$ is even, then
> $\exists m\in\mathbf Z:n=2m$
> $S_P=2(m+\sum\limits_{k=1}^nP'_k)$
> $\therefore S_P\vert 2$ and $S_P$ is even
> 
> If $n$ is odd, then
> $\exists m\in\mathbf Z:n=2m+1$
> $S_P=2(m+\sum\limits_{k=1}^nP'_k)+1$
> $\therefore S_P\mod 2=1$ and $S_P$ is odd
> 
> $\square$

## 17

Compute $4^1,4^2,4^3,4^4,4^5,4^6,4^7,4^8$. Make a conjecture about the units digit of $4^n$ where $n$ is a positive integer. Use strong mathematical induction to prove your conjecture.

> [!answer]
> The units digit of $4^n:\forall n\in\mathbf Z^+$ will be equal to $5+(-1)^n\in\{4,6\}$
> Let $P(n)$ be that statement above.
> Let $U_n$ be the units digit of $4^n$
> 
> $P(1)$ is that the units digit of $4^1$ is $5-1=4$, which is true.
> 
> Assuming $\forall k\in\mathbf Z^+:1<k<n\to P(k)$
> $P(n-1)\to U_{n-1}\in\{4,6\}$
> $\exists M\in\mathbf Z^+:4^{n-1}=10M+U_{n-1}$ by definition of the unit digit of base 10
> 
> If $U_{n-1}=4$
> $4^n=4^{n-1}4=10(4M)+4U_{n-1}$
# 5.6

## 4

Find the first four terms of the sequence

$d_k=k(d_{k-1})^2$, for every integer $k\ge1$
$d_0=3$

## 12

Let $s_0,s_1,s_2,...$ be defined by the formula $s_n= \frac{(-1)^n}{n!}$ for every integer $n\ge0$. Show that this sequence satisfies the following recurrence relation for every integer $k\ge1$:

$s_k= \frac{-s_{k-1}}{k}$

## 38

*Compound Interest*: Suppose a certain amount of money is deposited in an account paying 3% annual interest compounded monthly. For each positive integer $n$, let $S_n=$ the amount on deposit at the end of the $n$th month, and let $S_0$ be the initial amount deposited.

### a

Find a recurrence relation for $S_0,S_1,S_2,...$, assuming no additional deposits or withdrawals during the year. Justify your answer.

### b

If $S_0=$ $10,000, find the amount of money on deposit at the end of one year.

### c

Find the APY for the account.
