---
date created: 2024-01-26 20:30
---

# 5.3

## 4

For each positive integer $n$, let $P(n)$ be the sentence that describes the following divisibility property:

$5^n-1$ is divisible by $4$.

### a

Write $P(0)$. Is $P(0)$ true?

### b

Write $P(k)$

### c

Write $P(k+1)$

### d

In a proof by mathematical induction that this divisibility property holds for every integer $n\ge0$, what must be shown in the inductive step?

## 7

For each positive integer n, let P(n) be the sentence

In any round-robin tournament involving $n$ teams, the teams can be labeled $T_1,T_2,T_3,...,T_n$, so that $T_i$ beats $T_{i+1}$ for every $i=1,2,...,n$.

### a

Write $P(2)$. Is $P(2)$ true?

### b

Write $P(k)$.

### c

Write $P(k+1)$

### d

In a proof by mathematical induction that $P(n)$ is true for each integer $n\ge2$, what must be shown in the inductive step?

## 15

Prove the statement by mathematical induction

$n(n^2+5)$ is divisible by $6$, for each integer $n\ge0$

# 5.4

## 10

The introductory example solved with ordinary mathematical induction in Section 5.3 can also be solved using strong mathematical induction. Let $P(n)$ be “any n¢ can be obtained using a combination of 3¢ and 5¢ coins.” Use strong mathematical induction to prove that $P(n)$ is true for every integer $n\ge8$.

## 13

Use strong mathematical induction to prove the existence part of the unique factorization of integers theorem (Theorem 4.4.5). In other words, prove that every integer greater than $1$ is either a prime number or a product of prime numbers.

## 16

Use strong mathematical induction to prove that for every integer $n\ge2$, if $n$ is even, then any sum of $n$ odd integers is even, and if $n$ is odd, then any sum of $n$ odd integers is odd.

## 17

Compute $4^1,4^2,4^3,4^4,4^5,4^6,4^7,4^8$. Make a conjecture about the units digit of $4^n$ where $n$ is a positive integer. Use strong mathematical induction to prove your conjecture.

# 5.6

## 4

Find the first four terms of the sequence

$d_k=k(d_{k-1})^2$, for every integer $k\ge1$
$d_0=3$

## 12

Let $s_0,s_1,s_2,...$ be defined by the formula $s_n= \frac{(-1)^n}{n!}$ for every integer $n\ge0$. Show that this sequence satisfies the following recurrence relation for every integer $k\ge1$:

$s_k= \frac{-s_{k-1}}{k}$

## 38

*Compound Interest*: Suppose a certain amount of money is deposited in an account paying 3% annual interest compounded monthly. For each positive integer $n$, let $S_n=$ the amount on deposit at the end of the $n$th month, and let $S_0$ be the initial amount deposited.

### a

Find a recurrence relation for $S_0,S_1,S_2,...$, assuming no additional deposits or withdrawals during the year. Justify your answer.

### b

If $S_0=$ $10,000, find the amount of money on deposit at the end of one year.

### c

Find the APY for the account.

# 6.1

## 1

In each of (b)–(d), answer the following questions: Is $A\subseteq B$? Is $B\subseteq A$? Is either $A$ or $B$ a proper subset of the other?

### b

$A=\{3,\sqrt{5^2-4^2},24\mod 7\}$
$B=\{8\mod 5\}$

### d

$A=\{a,b,c\}$
$B=\{\{a\},\{b\},\{c\}\}$

## 4

$A=\{n\in\mathbf Z|n=5r,r\in\mathbf Z\}$
$B=\{m\in\mathbf Z|m=20s,s\in\mathbf Z\}$
Prove or disprove each of the following statements.

### a

$A\subseteq B$

### b

$B\subseteq A$

## 12

Let the universal set be $\mathbf R$, the set of all real numbers, and let
$A=\{x\in\mathbf R|-3\le x\le 0\}$
$B=\{x\in\mathbf R|-1<x<2\}$
$C=\{x\in\mathbf R|6<x\le8\}$
Find each of the following:

### a

$A\cup B$

### b

$A\cap B$

### g

$A^C$

### i

## 25

Correction: In question 25 of chapter 6.1, index i starts from 1, instead of 0.

### a

### c

### d

### f

## 29

# 6.2

## 17

## 18

## 25

## 42
