---
date created: 2024-01-26 20:32
---

# 9.2

## 11

### c

How many bit strings of length $8$ begin and end with a $1$?

## 17

### c

How many integers from $1000$ through $9999$ have distinct digits?

### e

What is the probability that a randomly chosen four-digit integer has distinct digits? has distinct digits and is odd?

## 21

Suppose $A$ is a set with $m$ elements and $B$ is a set
with $n $elements.

### a

How many relations are there from $A$ to $B$? Explain.

### b

How many functions are there from $A$ to $B$? Explain.

### c

What fraction of the relations from $A$ to $B$ are functions?

## 31

### d

If $p_1,p_2,...,p_m$ are distinct prime numbers and $a_1,a_2,...,a_m$ are positive integers, how many distinct positive divisors does $p_1^{a_1}p_2^{a_2}...p_m^{a_m}$ have?

### e

What is the smallest positive integer with exactly $12$ divisors?

## 39

### b

How many ways can six of the letters of the word $ALGORITHM$ be selected and written in a row?

### d

How many ways can six of the letters of the word $ALGORITHM$ be selected and written in a row if the first two letters must be $OR$?

# 9.3

## 2

### b

How many strings of hexadecimal digits consist of from two through five digits?

## 7

At a certain company, passwords must be from 3–5 symbols long and composed from the 26 uppercase letters of the Roman alphabet, the ten digits 0–9, and the 14 symbols !, @, #, $, %, ^, &, \*, (, ), 2, 1, {, and }.

### c

How many passwords have at least one repeated symbol?

### d

What is the probability that a password chosen at random has at least one repeated symbol?

## 17

### a

How many strings of four hexadecimal digits do not have any repeated digits?

### b

How many strings of four hexadecimal digits have at least one repeated digit?

### c

What is the probability that a randomly chosen string of four hexadecimal digits has at least one repeated digit?

## 23

### b

Suppose an integer from $1$ through $1000$ is chosen at random. Find the probability that the integer is a multiple of 4 or a multiple of 7.

### c

How many integers from $1$ through $1000$ are neither multiples of $4$ nor multiples of $7$?

# 9.4

## 4

In a group of $700$ people, must there be $2$ who have the same first and last initials? Why?

## 7

Let $S=\{3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12\}$. Suppose six integers are chosen from $S$. Must there be two integers whose sum is $15$? Why?

## 11

If $n+1$ integers are chosen from the set $\{1, 2, 3,..., 2n\}$, where $n$ is a positive integer, must at least one of them be even? Why?

## 31

A group of $15$ executives are to share $5$ assistants. Each executive is assigned exactly $1$ assistant, and no assistant is assigned to more than $4$ executives. Show that at least $3$ assistants are assigned to $3$ or more executives.

## 33

Let $A$ be a set of six positive integers each of which is less than $15$. Show that there must be two distinct subsets of $A$ whose elements when added up give the same sum. (Thanks to Jonathan Goldstine for this problem.)

# 9.5

## 7

A computer programming team has 13 members.

### a

How many ways can a group of seven be chosen to work on a project?

### b

Suppose seven team members are women and six are men.

#### i

How many groups of seven can be chosen that contain four women and three men?

#### ii

How many groups of seven can be chosen that contain at least one man?

#### iii

How many groups of seven can be chosen that contain at most three women?

### c

Suppose two team members refuse to work together on projects. How many groups of seven can be chosen to work on a project?

### d

Suppose two team members insist on either working together or not at all on projects. How many groups of seven can be chosen to work on a project?

## 8

An instructor gives an exam with fourteen questions. Students are allowed to choose any ten to answer.

### a

How many different choices of ten questions are there?

### b

Suppose six questions require proof and eight do not.

#### i

How many groups of ten questions contain four that require proof and six that do not?

#### ii

How many groups of ten questions contain at least one that requires proof?

#### iii

How many groups of ten questions contain at most three that require proof?

### c

Suppose the exam instructions specify that at most one of questions $1$ and $2$ may be included among the ten. How many different choices of ten questions are there?

### d

Suppose the exam instructions specify that either both questions $1$ and $2$ are to be included among the ten or neither is to be included. How many different choices of ten questions are there?

## 10

Two new drugs are to be tested using a group of $60$ laboratory mice, each tagged with a number for identification purposes. Drug $A$ is to be given to $22$ mice, drug $B$ is to be given to another $22$ mice, and the remaining $16$ mice are to be used as controls. How many ways can the assignment of treatments to mice be made? (A single assignment involves specifying the treatment for each mouse—whether drug $A$, drug $B$, or no drug.)

## 13

A coin is tossed ten times. In each case the outcome $H$ (for heads) or $T$ (for tails) is recorded. (One possible outcome of the ten tosses is denoted $T~H~H~T~T~T~H~T~T~H$.)

### b

In how many of the possible outcomes are exactly five heads obtained?

### e

In how many of the possible outcomes is at most one head obtained?

## 16

Suppose that three microchips in a production run of forty are defective. A sample of five is to be selected to be checked for defects.

### b

How many samples will contain at least one defective chip?

### c

What is the probability that a randomly chosen sample of five contains at least one defective chip?

## 20

### a

How many distinguishable ways can the letters of the word $MILLIMICRON$ be arranged in order?

### b

How many distinguishable orderings of the letters of $MILLIMICRON$ begin with $M$ and end with $N$?

### c

How many distinguishable orderings of the letters of $MILLIMICRON$ contain the letters $CR$ next to each other in order and also the letters $ON$ next to each other in order?

# 9.8

## 3

Suppose $A$ and $B$ are mutually exclusive events in a sample space $S$, $C$ is another event in $S$, $A\cup B\cup A=S$, and $A$ and $B$ have probabilities $0.4$ and $0.2$, respectively.

### a

What is $P(A\cup B)?$

### b

Is it possible that $P(C)=0.22$? Explain.

## 15

A company offers a raffle whose grand prize is a $40,000 new car. Additional prizes are a $1,000 television and a $500 computer. Tickets cost $20 each. Ticket income over the cost of the prizes will be donated to charity. If 3,000 tickets are sold, what is the expected gain or loss of each ticket?

## 18

An urn contains five balls numbered $1, 2, 2, 8,  8$. If a person selects a set of three balls at random, what is the expected value of the sum of the numbers on the balls?

# 9.9

## 2

Suppose $P(A|B)=\frac{1}{2}$ and $P(A\cap B)=\frac{1}{6}$. What is $P(B)$?

## 18

Prove that if:
- $P(A\cap B)=P(A)\cdot P(B)$
- $P(A)\ne0$
- $P(B)\ne0$
Then:
- $P(A|B)=P(A)$
- $P(B|A)=P(B)$

# Additional

## 1

**(8 points)** One blue die and one gray die are rolled, what is the probability that the sum of the numbers is 6, given that both of the numbers are odd?

## 2

**(8 points)** Imagine there is a drug test that is 98% accurate, meaning that 98% of the time, it shows a true positive result for someone using the drug, and 98% of the time, it shows a true negative result for nonusers of the drug. Next, assume 0.5% of people use the drug. If a person selected at random tests positive for the drug, what is the probability the person is actually a user of the drug?
