Hezzu you little sneaky one! Id like to say that even though sometimes we might not agree on things or we might have a small misunderstanding that we both can still talk to each other and talk it out. Thank you for always listening to me no matter how small and silly it is thank you for listening and always doing your best to not only be there for me but also offer your advice and support no matter what. I promise to do the same for you and do my best to always be there for you no matter what. Im sorry sometimes i cant be perfect and do everything right, but thank you for understanding that and bearing with me as i learn how to treat you better. I love you so much babe and am looking forward being with you more in the future <3

---

Issie ducks down a bit in the bush that shes sitting in. Wondering whats wrong with the weird little boy over there.

Teb's tired mind wonders whats going on in the forest with the little girl that saw him walk out. She looks kinda cute. He thinks that maybe he should go say hi. Teb sits up a bit and looks into the forest.

Issie, ducking behind the bush fiddles with her fingers and look down on the ground before her, wondering if it was awkward that she noticed the little boy from far away. A leaf fell on her shoulder and she moved her hand to brush it off. Her hand touched the top of the light weight pressing on her shoulder, but it was a little warmer and sticker than she thought it would be. She looks up and sees a finger, not a leaf. Her eyes widen as she stares at the small neat folds of skin on the finger resting on her shoulder. She scrambles backwards but bumps into something that she doesn't remember being there before. Issie snaps her head upwards and notices Teb looking downward on her, confused as to what shes doing. Issie's eyes widen even more as she sees his face. She quickly looks away and jumps onto her feet, brushing off the dirt.

---

1. [**Run away**](./2.1.md)
2. [**Talk to him**](./2.2.md)