# CQPWeb 2

## Prompt

Same as "CQPweb1," above, but this time, your query must contain at least three units of CQPweb syntax query that DO NOT CONSIST of language strings or simple string variables.  Your query must have three units of _grammatical_ variables, such as variables for a preposition; "into" does not count; \_{PREP} does count.  You see the difference? Here is an example of what your query should look like.

- \_{PREP} (\_{ART})? ((\_{ADV})? \_{A})* \_{N} 

That is, your query must be illegible.  "The more * the more" is readable and legible; pos="JJR|RBR" is not.  Do you see the difference? Your query must look mostly like Martian gibberish to a normal speaker of a language; your query must be uninterpretable to anyone who is unfamiliar with CQPweb query syntax. It's fine if your query has some legible strings in it, but it also must contain at least three units of CQPweb query syntax that are not legible.  The purpose here is for you to demonstrate that you can use a big range of the CQPweb tool, not just a little tiny bit. A simple search for words with a few non-grammar variables is inadequate. **By the way, be careful: remember that the examples use C6 tags but that the NewsScape corpus uses PennTree Tagbank tags, so that the example queries will not work.**

## Response

I have not been able to get the CQPWeb search to work, it keeps failing

Regardless of what I query, including known good queries, I get the response that brackets are not balanced, when they evidently are.
