# 1

Chris is on a skateboard that is traveling at a constant horizontal speed $v_x = 4.35 ~m/s$. They hold a ball in their hand at a height of $h = 1.22~ m$ above the ground and then they toss the ball “up” (as seen in their frame) so that they catch it back in their hand exactly $T=2.85 s$ later.

## a

Relative to Chris’ hand, what is the speed of the ball as it it travels upward? Explain your answer.

> [!answer]
> Conservation of energy
> $v_i=-v_f$
> 
> The ball only has the force of gravity acting upon it.
> $a_b=-g$
> 
> Definition of velocity given acceleration
> $v(t)=v_0+at$
> $v(t)=v_i-gt$
> 
> $-v_i=v_f=v(T)=v_i-gT$
> $v_i=\frac{gT}{2}$
> 
> $v(t)=\frac{gT}{2}-gt$
> 
> ---
> 
> $v(t)=\frac{9.8\cdot 2.85}{2}-9.8t~ \frac{m}{s}$
> $v(t)=13.965-9.8t~ \frac{m}{s}$
> Where $13.965~ \frac{m}{s}$ is the initial vertical upwards velocity
> 
> ---
> 
> $v(t)=\frac{gT}{2}-gt$
> $v(t)=13.965-9.8t~ \frac{m}{s}$
> Where $13.965~ \frac{m}{s}$ is the initial vertical upwards velocity
> $\square$

## b

Relative to the fixed ground, what is the maximum height of the ball in the air? Explain your answer.

> [!answer]
> There will be maxima and minima in the ball's vertical position when the velocity is equal to $0$.
> 
> $v(t_{max})=\frac{gT}{2}-gt_{max}$
> $gt_{max}=\frac{gT}{2}$
> $t_{max}=\frac{T}{2}$
> 
> Definition of position given velocity
> $y(t)=y_0+\int\limits_0^tv(s)~ds$
> $y(t)=y_0+\frac{gTt}{2}-\frac{gt^2}{2}$
> 
> $y(t_{max})=h+\frac{gTt_{max}}{2}-\frac{gt_{max}^2}{2}$
> $y(t_{max})=h+\frac{gT^2}{4}-\frac{gT^2}{8}$
> $y(t_{max})=h+\frac{gT^2}{8}$
> 
> ---
> 
> $y(t_{max})=1.22+\frac{9.8(2.85)^2}{8}~m$
> $y(t_{max})=11.17~m$
> 
> ---
> 
> $y(t_{max})=y_0+\frac{gT^2}{8}$
> $y(t_{max})=11.17~m$
> $\square$

## c

Suppose there is a tiny motionless bug on the ground immediately below Chris’ hand at the instant when they toss the ball upward. Suppose we define standard unit vectors $\hat i$ and $\hat j$ corresponding to the frame of reference for the bug. Write down vector expressions for the position, velocity, and acceleration of the ball ($\vec r,\vec v,\vec a$) as a function of time, $t$ as seen by the bug at the instant of time just before the ball is caught by Chris. Explain your answer.

> [!answer]
> The vectors from the hand to the ball can be given by (as calculated previously):
> 
> $\vec p(t)=\langle0,\frac{gTt}{2}-\frac{gt^2}{2}\rangle$
> $\vec v(t)=\langle 0,\frac{gT}{2}-gt\rangle$
> $\vec a(t)=\langle0, -g\rangle$
> 
> And the vectors from the bug to the hand can be given by
> 
> $\vec a(t)=\langle0,0\rangle$ as neither object is accelerating
> $\vec v(t)=\langle v_x, 0\rangle$ movement of the skateboard
> $\vec p(t)=\langle tv_x, h\rangle$ integral of velocity with initial displacement
> 
> The overall vectors can be given by the sum:
> 
> $\vec p(t)=\langle tv_x,h+\frac{gTt}{2}-\frac{gt^2}{2}\rangle$
> $\vec v(t)=\langle v_x,\frac{gT}{2}-gt\rangle$
> $\vec a(t)=\langle 0, -g\rangle$
> 
> ---
> 
> $\vec p(t)=\langle 4.35t,1.22+13.965t-4.9t^2\rangle$
> $\vec v(t)=\langle v_x,\frac{gT}{2}-gt\rangle$
> $\vec a(t)=\langle 0, -g\rangle$

