> [!para]
> ###### Spiritual Disciplines
> ###### May 25, 2023
> ###### Pastor Bob
> ###### Trevor Nichols
> 
> # The Voyage of the Dawn Trader
> 
> The Voyage of the Dawn Trader by C.S. Lewis in his Chronicles of Narnia series utilizes a strong Christian Lift extended metaphor to convey the sense of the journey of a Christian life as they characters in the story undergo a physical journey themselves filled with adventure and turmoil.
> 
> The book covers utilizes multiple ideas and sub-stories to aide the main story-line as a whole. The main idea of the entire story is the quest to reach Aslan's Country. This represents our journey in Christianity as a whole, the journey to getting closer to his country as a reference to our journey on the way to getting closer with God. This is the main theme of the story, as all other plots are just detours on the way up. This stood out to me because it was the main idea of the story and it is kinda hard to miss, yet incomparably important for understanding the story as a whole. Next, there is the Island of the Dufflepuds: an interesting encounter with strange creatures as they trek on. This section of the story is an example of the distractions of life and how they may push us off the track to God. This stood out to me plainly because of how creatively C.S. Lewis portrays these problems and how easy they are to relate to our own life. Lastly, are the last words of Ramandu. He helps them on the way to Azlan's country, yet his last words completely change your impression of him. He states, "But there I have another name. You must learn to know me by that name. This was the very reason why you were brought to Narnia, that by knowing me here for a little, you may know me better there." This is important as it refers to the differences between the material world and that of heaven. He also in a way represents what is good in life and how to discern what you should and should not do. He also gives the impression to me that things have a deeper meaning: journeys that you go through now teach you things that will be useful later in life and as well in your spiritual journey.
> 
> I particularly enjoyed how expressive the story was, specifically in the exciting and adventurous story-line, the dynamic and allegorical characters, deeper theme of spiritual journey, and the satisfying ending of redemption and success. I found the adventure interesting simply because it followed a similar style to entertaining stories, whilst still maintaining a deeper meaning. The dynamic characters were interesting to watch and develop because instead of being simple and static, you can see how they develop as well as see how they can relate to you in real life, which I found particularly interesting and helpful. The overarching theme of the Christian journey was also enjoyable to me, being a christian, as its both relatable and morally unobtrusive in my life.
> 
> I believe that God is trying to teach me to be persistent through this story. Even though the characters inside go through so many problems, they still come out the other side stronger and still on the same journey. I can apply this to my own spiritual journey by applying similar principles to my own life.

