Palestinian American literary theorist and cultural critic Edward Said has written that “Exile is strangely compelling to think about but terrible to experience. It is the unhealable rift forced between a human being and a native place, between the self and its true home: its essential sadness can never be surmounted.” Yet Said has also said that exile can become “a potent, even enriching” experience.  
Select a novel, play, or epic (Things Fall Apart) in which a character experiences such a rift and becomes cut off from “home,” whether that home is the character’s birthplace, family, homeland, or other special place. Then write an essay in which you analyze how the character’s experience with exile is both alienating and enriching, and how this experience illuminates the meaning of the work as a whole.

- 1B. Explain the function of a character changing or remaining unchanged.
- 2C. Describe the relationship between a character and a setting.
- 7B. Develop a thesis statement that conveys a defensible claim about an interpretation of literature and that may establish a line of reasoning.
- 7C. Develop commentary that establishes and explains relationships among textual evidence, the line of reasoning, and the thesis.
- 7D. Select and use relevant and sufficient evidence to both develop and support a line of reasoning.

> [!para]
> Throughout Things Fall Apart, Nwoye undergoes an alienating yet enriching exile from his father, family, and tradition due to his introduction into the christian community. His initial departure from his father began early in his life when his father noticed that Nwoye is not and will not be as masculine as he was. Ultimately, the rift led Nwoye to leave his own culture for that of the Christians, followed by an expected disowning by his father. Nwoye's exile is not all morbid, however, as he finally experiences acceptance into a community unlike the hostility of his family.
> 
> Towards the beginning of the book, Nwoye and his father already had a shaky relationship. Exemplified early in the story, Nwoye is shown to already not have the favor of his father: "So Okonkwo encouraged the boys to sit with him in his obi, and he told them stories of the land -- masculine stories of violence and bloodshed. Nwoye knew that it was right to be masculine and to be violent, but somehow he still preferred the stories that his mother used to tell..." (24.5%). Okonkwo, being affected by his own relationship with his father, wants to be as masculine as possible and instill that value into his son Nwoye. At this stage, Okonkwo still has hopes of being able to save Nwoye and turn him masculine, and Nwoye also knows what he must do in order to be honorable in his family. As the story progresses, Okonkwo continues to lose hope in Nwoye's masculinity, driving a wedge between their relationship as Nwoye still fails to be masculine, but also begins to care less about being honorable and masculine. When the missionaries visit Nwoye's town, he quickly converts to Christianity, prompting his father to quickly disown him. "'What are you doing here?' Oberika had asked when after many difficulties the the missionaries had allowed him to speak to the boy. 'I am one of them,' replied Nwoye. 'How is your father?' Oberika asked, not knowing what else to say. 'I don't know. He is not my father,' said Nwoye, unhappily'" (68.1%). Here, after Nwoye has joined the Christians he does not even identify his own father as his own anymore, accepting his self exile in a sense. Nwoye joined the Christians knowing that he would be rejecting his family and tradition, finally giving up on trying to satisfy the expectations of his father and follow the tradition of his village. 
> 
> Being Christian, although meaning he would be rejecting his father, Nwoye gained a sense of community and acceptance. At the very end of chapter 16, Nwoye's feelings about Christianity are revealed. "But there was a young lad who had been captivated. His name was Nwoye... The hymn about brothers who sat in darkness and in fear seemed to answer a vague and persistent question that haunted his young soul -- the question of the twins crying in the bush and the question of Ikemefuna who was killed. He felt a relief within as the hymn poured into his parched soul" (70.1%). As he joined Christianity, he explicitly enjoys brothers being together -- one of community and of a reminder of Ikemefuna. The community Nwoye never found other than Ikemefuna was refound in his new religious beliefs. Later, Nwoye finds refuge in the church: "But he left hold of Nwoye, who walked away and never returned. He went back to the church and told Mr. Kiaga that he had decided to go to Umuofia... Nwoye did not fully understand. But he was happy to leave his father." (72.4%). This points out that in a time of need, Nwoye goes to the church and does not look back on the old ways of his father and his family. The entire experience for Nwoye was an awakening of who he himself wants to be and not submitting to the pressures of his family and culture.
> 
> Ultimately, Nwoye's arguably self-inflicted exile from his own family and exile amplified the broken relationship with his father and led him to find a new community where he can feel safe expressing himself. Going from wanting to satisfy his father but not wanting the results for himself to not caring about his father and doing what he felt was right was a long journey for Nwoye, but it ultimately led him down an enriching journey.
