# Modularity in Technology

Modularity refers to the  property of being composed of “individually distinct functional units” ("Modularity"). In computer science, this means that the software gets developed in modules, interconnecting to work together and serve a single purpose. The same teams does not need to develop the same modules and may instead be developed by people who know nothing of each other’s existence. Modularity allows developers to focus on a tiny portion of the software and refine it until it performs its function excellently. This modular approach allows modules to be reusable, which cuts down on costs and time.Although modularity may introduce a slight added complexity overall, when considering the system and its parts as a whole, its advantages span not only in individual complexity but in sustainability, progressivity, and reusability as a whole.

Modularity has time and cost savings for physical technologies. For example, NASA developed modular robots for remote use and noted that “[t]he standardized modules would decrease the cost of a new robotic manipulator and eliminate the possibility of obsolescence” (Tesar). It is easily hot-swappable and upgradable due to its modular design compared to previous integrated designs. This modular system in their robots also allowed for faster iterations in design, allowing them to save money on development costs. Additionally, NASA noticed that “Failure in a robotic system might mean the high cost of total replacement. This maintenance objective would best be met by using robots made up of modules which could be easily replaced” (Tesar). The hot-swappable portion of it not only allows for cheaper replacements due to less work being needed to install it but also allows them to be upgraded on the fly, decreasing maintenance costs. Although hot-swappability is not necessarily encompassed by modularity, it is one of the byproducts of properly done modularization. “When IBM employed this approach [of modularity] and also made the new systems compatible with existing software (by adding “emulator” modules), the result was a huge commercial and financial success for the company and its customers” (Baldwin). The modular design of IBM’s systems not only allowed them to add emulator modules but allowed them to see a direct financial benefit. A similar trend can be seen in software development as well. In an international conference on IT, it was said that “The usage of the modern object-oriented software architectures and modularity as concept in the information technology industry is inevitable due to the great cost cut advantages” (Bashovski). The cost benefits of such modularization in software is seen so easily that modularization is being taken for granted. Modularization of software also allows for all the same benefits as those in hardware, of hot-swappability and easier maintenance. Statistically, it has also been proven to be effective in a business. In a study performed on the causation of modularity and business performance, it was said that “we found support for the hypotheses [that modularity leads to greater business performance], with additional presence of mediation. Although some relationships showed weak significance levels, nonetheless the sign indicated directional support [of modularity leading to business performance]” (Nagpal). Just the fact of being modular allows these benefits of hot-swappability, decreased costs all around, and more significant business efficiency and performance.

It may be argued that modularity only adds to the problem of overall project complexity, it simultaneously reduces the complexity for each team working on the project. Being modular, each team need only focus on their own system and on making it perform as intended; they do not need to worry about how it will interact with the system as a whole because of its modular status. In the Harvard Business Review, Baldwin stated that “Modularity has enabled companies to handle this increasingly complex technology” (Baldwin). Each person working on any such complex technology manages much less complexity individually because they only work on their individual section. This style of managing complexity allows teams of people to undertake larger, complex projects by splitting up the complexity into smaller, bite-sized projects. These benefits of smaller complexity on the individual come at the cost of a more complicated system overall. As said by Baldwin and Clark:

> If modularity brings so many advantages, why aren’t all products (and processes) fully modular? It turns out that modular systems are much more difficult to design than comparable interconnected systems. The designers of modular systems must know a great deal about the inner workings of the overall product or process in order to develop the visible design rules necessary to make the modules function as a whole. They have to specify those rules in advance. And while designs at the modular level are proceeding independently, it may seem that all is going well; problems with incomplete or imperfect modularization tend to appear only when the modules come together and work poorly as an integrated whole. (Baldwin)

The process to initially create a modular system may be quite complex. However, once it has been laid out, it becomes trivially complicated in comparison, as it has now been modularized into multiple small uncomplex issues. In comparison to an integrated system, once you have set it up, it still is one large complex issue as a whole. Every team member needs to understand the system as a whole in order to properly develop it, in contrast to only the initial starters of a modular project.

Another advantage of modularity is in the maintainability of such systems. In the aforementioned NASA robots, modularity allowed these robots to be easily transportable, quickly assembled, and easily repaired and upgraded (Tesar). The modularity of systems allows them to be easily disassembled into smaller modules, facilitating transportability and reassembly. On top of being easy to repair, “a decomposable system may be able to limp along even if some subsystems are damaged or incomplete” (Langlois). Modular systems tend to be more robust and resistant to damage. Since each module relies on each other yet are able to work individually, spontaneous failure or disassembly should be less catastrophic, with some completely unaffected modules, than a fully integrated system. Similarly, “[m]odularity makes it possible for the system designer to mix and match where functionality resides” (Cowhey) and allows quick system refactoring. Quick refactoring means that the entire system can quickly be rearranged to further optimize the system or to quickly satisfy new constraints. This quick modification allows the system to be easily maintained and repurposed rather than a complete overhaul. As a concrete example, in software design, modularity minimizes the amount of work a single unit needs to manage concurrently. The development of OS/360 by IBM was laid out quite nondecomposibily, meaning modularizing it properly was difficult. This nondecomposibility led the project manager to create a handbook to help manage interdependencies within the system. Although this was a good idea to reduce development errors and speed up production, the handbook grew to 5 feet (1.52 m) thick (Langlois). The lack of proper modularization made development hard to manage due to a large number of interdependencies. Modularization not only allows physical systems to be easily transported, replaced, and refactored but also for project management on the software side. Modularity improves both maintainability as well as progressivity. “The modularity approach will allow aggressive upgrading programs to be pursued in almost all major areas” (Tesar). The easy maintenance of any system also simultaneously allows for quick progression, simply replacing modules one at a time. The separation of modules also allows for swift improvement on each individual module. “The fact that different companies (and different units of IBM) were working independently on modules enormously boosted the rate of innovation. By concentrating on a single module, each unit or company could push deeper into its workings” (Baldwin). Quick progress and simple replaceability enables the system as a whole to advance quickly as well as allows for easy maintainability. 

Evidently, modularity leads to better team management, simple maintainability and progressivity, immediate cost savings due to ease in development, and greater opportunity for features. Although modularity may have several benefits, it does not fit every problem out there, such as uncomplicated projects or physically space restrained products. The effort needed to modularize an existing project or to orchestrate a new one is minuscule compared to the amount of effort saved in the long run. Its split approach allows parallel development and simultaneously facilitates time and cost savings. “In a world of change, modularity is generally worth the costs. The real issue is normally not whether to be modular but how to be modular” (Langlois).

Works Cited

Baldwin, Carliss Y., and Kim B. Clark. “Managing in an Age of Modularity.” Harvard Business Review, 1 Aug. 2014, https://hbr.org/1997/09/managing-in-an-age-of-modularity.

Bashovski, Vasko, and Saso Koceski. “Teaching Modular Software Architectures.” UGD Academic Repository, 21 May 2016, https://core.ac.uk/download/35339553.pdf.

Cowhey, Peter F., et al. “Transforming Global Information and Communication Markets: The Political Economy of Innovation.” The MIT Press, 2009, http://www.jstor.org/stable/j.ctt5hhfnj.

Langlois, Richard N., “Modularity in Technology, Organization, and Society.” Economics Working Papers. https://opencommons.uconn.edu/econ_wpapers/199905.

“Modularity Definition & Meaning.” Dictionary.com, 2022, https://www.dictionary.com/browse/modularity.

Nagpal, Pankaj and Lyytinen, Kalle, “MODULARITY, INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY OUTSOURCING SUCCESS, AND BUSINESS PERFORMANCE.” ICIS 2010 Proceedings. 64. http://aisel.aisnet.org/icis2010_submissions/64.

Tesar, Delbert, et al., “MODULARITY IN ROBOTIC SYSTEMS.” NASA Technical Reports Server, 3 Aug. 2016, https://core.ac.uk/download/pdf/42821936.pdf.
