# CSDS440 Written Homework 2

**Instructions:** Each question is worth 10 points unless otherwise stated. Write your answers below the question. Each answer should be formatted so it renders properly on github. **Answers that do not render properly may not be graded.** Please comment the last commit with "FINAL COMMIT" and **enter the final commit ID in canvas by the due date.** 

When working as a group, only one answer to each question is needed unless otherwise specified. Each person in each group must commit and push their own work. **You will not get credit for work committed/pushed by someone else even if done by you.** Commits should be clearly associated with your name or CWRU ID (abc123). Each person is expected to do an approximately equal share of the work, as shown by the git logs. **If we do not see evidence of equal contribution from the logs for someone, their individual grade will be reduced.** 



1.	Write a program to sample a set of $N$ points from $(−1,1)^2$. Label the points using the classifier $y=sign(0.5x_1+0.5x_2)$. Generate datasets from your program and use your ID3 code from Programming 1 to learn trees on this data (there is no need to do cross validation or hold out a test set). Plot a graph where the $x$-axis is the value of $N$, over $N={50, 100, 500, 1000, 5000}$, and the $y$-axis is the depth of the tree learned by ID3. Explain your observations. (20 points)

Answer: 

2.	Show the decision boundaries learned by ID3 in Q1 for $N=50$ and $N=5000$ by generating an independent test set of size 100,000, plotting all the points and coloring them according to the predicted label from the $N=50$ and $N=5000$ trees. Explain what you see relative to the true decision boundary. What does this tell you about the suitability of trees for such datasets? (20 points)

Answer:

3.	Consider the following table of examples over Boolean attributes, annotated with the target concept's label. Ignore the "Weight" column and use information gain to find the first split in a decision tree (remember that ID3 stops if there is no information gain). You can use your programming code/a numerical package like Matlab to do this, and just report the final result.(10 points)

|A1|	A2|	A3|	A4|	Label|	Weight|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|F|	F|	F|	F|	0	|1/256|
|F	|F	|F	|T|	0	|3/256|
|F	|F	|T	|F	|1	|3/256|
|F	|F	|T	|T	|1	|9/256|
|F	|T	|F	|F	|1	|3/256|
|F	|T	|F	|T	|1	|9/256|
|F	|T	|T	|F	|0	|9/256|
|F	|T	|T	|T	|0	|27/256|
|T	|F	|F	|F	|1	|3/256|
|T	|F	|F	|T	|1	|9/256|
|T	|F	|T	|F	|0	|9/256|
|T	|F	|T	|T	|0	|27/256|
|T	|T	|F	|F	|0	|9/256|
|T	|T	|F	|T	|0	|27/256|
|T	|T	|T	|F	|1	|27/256|
|T	|T	|T	|T	|1	|81/256|

Answer:

4.	Now from the same table, find another split using "weighted" information gain. In this case, instead of counting the examples for each label in the information gain calculation, add the numbers in the Weight column for each example. You can use your code/a numerical package like Matlab to do this, and just report the final result. (10 points)

Answer:

5.	There is a difference between the splits for Q3 and Q4. Can you explain what is happening? (10 points)

Answer:


6.	Person X wishes to evaluate the performance of a learning algorithm on a set of $n$ examples ( $n$ large). X employs the following strategy:  Divide the $n$ examples randomly into two equal-sized disjoint sets, A and B. Then train the algorithm on A and evaluate it on B. Repeat the previous two steps for $N$ iterations ( $N$ large), then average the $N$ performance measures obtained. Is this sound empirical methodology? Explain why or why not. (10 points)

Answer: 

7.	Two classifiers A and B are evaluated on a sample with P positive examples and N negative examples and their ROC graphs are plotted. It is found that the ROC of A dominates that of B, i.e. for every FP rate, TP rate(A) $\geq$ TP rate(B). What is the relationship between the precision-recall graphs of A and B on the same sample? (10 points)

Answer: 

8.	Prove that an ROC graph must be monotonically increasing. (10 points)

Answer:

9.	Prove that the ROC graph of a random classifier that ignores attributes and guesses each class with equal probability is a diagonal line. (10 points)

Answer: 
