# Properties of Water
````col
```molecule3d
water
```
**Water** ($H_2O$) Forms a V shaped molecule with the $H$ ends having a partial positive charge and the $O$ ends having a partial negative charge.
````

> [!def]
> **Hydrogen Bonding**
> A relatively strong intermolecular force.
> The positive charge of the $H$ is attracted to the negative charges of other molecules. In the case of water, the negative charge is on the $O$ side.
> 
> In liquid water, a hydrogen bond is about **1/20th** as strong as a covalent bond

## The four emergent properties of water
### Cohesion

> [!def]
> **Cohesion**
> The bonds that hold a substance together. 
> 
> In water, Hydrogen bonds act as the cohesion force.

> [!def]
> **Surface Tension**
> The difficulty of stretching or puncturing the surface of a liquid
> 
> Since water's cohesion force is Hydrogen Bonding (a relatively strong intermolecular force), its surface tension is also high. Additionally, the Hydrogen bonds do *not* bond with the surrounding air, increasing its surface tension

> [!def]
> **Adhesion**
> The bonds that hold a substance to something else.
> 
> Water also has a relatively strong adhesive force to certain materials because of its polarity and Hydrogen bonding.

#### Cohesion and Surface Tension help support Life
- High surface tension allows things to float easily
- Adhesion allows plants to transport water up its roots and stem against the gravity

### Moderation of Temperature

> [!def]
> **Thermal Energy**
> The total amount of kinetic energy a certain amount particles have.

> [!def]
> **Specific Heat**
> The amount of energy required to raise the temperature of 1g of a substance by 1 degree C.
> 
> The higher the specific heat, the more resistant to temperature change the substance is.



### Floating of Ice on Water

### The Solvent of Life 

