# 4

## 4.23

A recently discovered semiconductor has $N_{c} = 10^{19}~ cm^{-3}$, $N_{v} = 5 \times10^{18}~ cm^{-3}$, and $E_{g} = 2~ eV$. If it is doped with $10^{17}$ donors (fully ionized), calculate the electron, hole, and intrinsic carrier concentrations at $627\degree C$. Sketch the simplified If band diagram, and specify the value of $E_{F}$ and $E_{i}$ with respect to the band edges. If we apply $5~ V$  across a piece of this semiconductor $8~ \micro m$ long, what is the current? The piece is $2~ \micro m$ wide and $1.5~ \micro m$ thick. The diffusion coefficient of holes and electrons is $25~ cm^{2}/s$ and $75~ cm^{2}/s$, respectively.

> [!answer]
> $n_{i}=\sqrt{N_{c}N_{v}}e^{-E_{g}/2kT}$
> $n_{i}=1.784\times 10^{13}~ cm^{-3}$
> 
> ---
> 
> $n_{0}\approx 10^{17}$
> $n_{0}p_{0}=n_{i}^{2}$
> $p=\frac{n_{i}^{2}}{n}$
> $p=3.18\times 10^{9}$
> 
> ---
> 
> $n_{0}=n_{i}e^{(E_{F}-E_{i})/kT}$
> $E_{F}-E_{i}=0.6696~ eV$
> Where $E_{i}$ is the center of the edges of the band
> 
> ---
> 
> $J=q(p\mu_{p}+n\mu_{n})\varepsilon$
> $J=\frac{q}{kT}(pD_{p}+nD_{n}) \frac{E}{L}$
> $J=96674~ \frac{A}{cm^{2}}$
> $I=JA=2.9~ mA$

## 5.9

An abrupt Si junction (area = $0.0001~ cm^{2}$) has the following parameters:

n-side: $N_{d}=5\times 10^{17}~ cm^{-3}$
p-side: $N_{a}=10^{17}~ cm^{-3}$

Draw and label the band diagram, and calculate the difference between the Fermi level and the intrinsic Fermi level on both sides. Calculate the built-in potential at the junction in equilibrium and the depletion width. What is the total number of exposed acceptors in the depletion region?

> [!answer]
> $n_{i}=1.5\times 10^{10}~ cm^{-3}$
> 
> ---
> 
> On the n-side
> $n_{0}=n_{i}e^{(E_{F}-E_{i})/kT}$
> $E_{F}-E_{i}=0.4486~ eV$
> 
> ---
> 
> On the p-side
> $p_{0}=n_{i}e^{(E_{i}-E_{F})/kT}$
> $E_{i}-E_{F}=0.4070~ eV$
> 
> ---
> 
> $V_{0}=\frac{kT}{q}\ln\left( \frac{N_{a}N_{d}}{n_{i}^{2}} \right)$
> $V_{0}=0.8556~ V$
> 
> ---
> 
> $W=\sqrt{\frac{2\epsilon V_{0}}{q}\left(\frac{N_{a}+N_{d}}{N_{a}N_{d}}\right)}$
> $W=1.1577\times 10^{-5}~ cm$
> $x_{p0}=W \frac{N_{d}}{N_{a}+N_{d}}$
> $x_{p0}=9.65\times 10^{-6}$

## 5.15

Boron is implanted into an n-type Si sample ($N_{d} = 10^{16}~ cm^{-3}$), forming an abrupt junction of square cross section with area $= 2 \times 10^{-3}~ cm^{2}$. Assume that the acceptor concentration in the p-type region is $N_{a} = 4 \times 10^{18}~ cm^{-3}$. Calculate $V_{0}$, $x_{n0}$, $x_{p0}$, $Q_{+}$, and $E_{0}$ for this junction at equilibrium (300 K). Sketch $\varepsilon$ and the charge density to scale, as in Fig. 5–12.

> [!answer]
> $A=2\times 10^{-3}~ cm^{2}$
> $N_{d} = 10^{16}~ cm^{-3}$
> $N_{a} = 4 \times 10^{18}~ cm^{-3}$
> 
> ---
> 
> $V_{0}=\frac{kT}{q}\ln\left( \frac{N_{a}N_{d}}{n_{i}^{2}} \right)$
> $V_{0}=0.8498~ V$
> 
> ---
> 
> $W=\sqrt{\frac{2\epsilon V_{0}}{q}\left(\frac{N_{a}+N_{d}}{N_{a}N_{d}}\right)}$
> $W=3.335\times 10^{-5}~ cm$
> 
> ---
> 
> $x_{n0}=W \frac{N_{a}}{N_{a}+N_{d}}$
> $x_{n0}=3.327\times 10^{-5}$
> 
> ---
> 
> $x_{p0}=W \frac{N_{d}}{N_{a}+N_{d}}$
> $x_{p0}=8.316\times 10^{-8}$
> 
> ---
> 
> $Q_{+}=qAx_{n0}N_{d}=qAx_{p0}N_{a}$
> $Q_{+}=1.06\times 10^{-10}$
> 
> ---
> 
> $\varepsilon_{0}=-\frac{q}{\varepsilon}x_{n0}N_{d}$
> $\varepsilon_{0}=-50966~ \frac{V}{cm}$
