Please post your 300-word reading response to Marjane Satrapi's _Persepolis_ in which you: 
1) identify an important theme in the text
2) identify two examples that support this particular theme
3) express your critical stance or opinion on this theme.

I believe an important theme in the text is the dialogue between religion and as Satrapi says "Western modernity". Satrapi claims that the two are not mutually exclusive, and even opens her book with both talking about cars and God, without conflict. As much as she claims that religion itself is not incompatible with "modernity", she does make a point to show that their Government's view of Islam is. Even though she herself is religious — and strongly so according to her religious examiner — she still is considered highly modern by society. She takes birth control, she has done drugs, she has had sex before marriage. At times in the book, the incompatibility with their government's religion and modernization irritates her significantly, namely when she complains that all the religious restrictions distract all women from thinking critically about free speech and quality of life as they are constantly worried about obeying their religious principles. The government and people claim to be fighting the war in the name of freedom, yet their own oppressive policies are intern

Satrapi even claims that the religious restrictions are self-contradictory and unfair at times, namely when she gets called out at college twice for disobeying the rules. She claims that tighter pants would reveal more of their figure, while it is meant to prevent people from seeing it. Ultimately, Satrapi poses their own version of religion to be highly restrictive and stagnating society. 