since i haven't written a paragraph for a long time so i'll write one because today is the day we've been together for 6 months which is like, half a year. i think from the start i never trusted you when you said you had feelings, i thought it was just a game to you or you were into me just because i saved your social life like what you said to me. so sometimes i would just sit there and wonder what if i didn't help you would you still be into me like how you are right now ? 
i feel like sometimes we are on a different wavelength and our point doesn't get to each other that's why we have some disagreements along the way. however it doesn't mean it'll be the end for us because i never would give up on you just because of a stupid argument or disagreement. 
it's so easy to find someone better in this world they say but it's important to find someone who compromises with you and understands you from within and not just the outer layer of you. i like to think of humans as a single ball of ferrero roche chocolate. first you have this wrapper, bottom and top, the top is golden; tin foil, the bottom is like parchment paper like; brown paper. you unwrap the bottom first while it sticks onto the top tin foil layer and you have to pull it off, i see that action as meeting someone and next unwrapping the golden wrapper is like getting to know them from the outer layer/ outer side like as a normal friend you're keen to have sometimes. then after unwrapping both layers, you have the chocolate, the chocolate is one hard layer, spikey chocolate layer which is them alone, and the inside layer of the hard shell will be their hearts. 
everything i just said above didn't really make sense i know, but i'm letting you know that after i met you i learned to view people no longer in a bad negative way but a more interesting and positive way and that's what changed me within.

there are sometimes where i'm pissed at you because you don't get my point but i reflect on myself and i remember i'm someone who gets heated easily and i need to calm down sometimes so people can truly understand me as a person or my heart desires. 
i'm not used to telling people how i feel or opening up, i often avoid it so it wouldn't be a pain in the ass for me to rant out to people who wouldn't understand my situations. 

i'm glad you made the effort and time into keeping my heart and my mind safe so i have some place to run when i'm feeling like shit. 

honestly, lately it seems different, we're not together as we used to be but i understand why, it's because the thrill of the new relationship isn't there and anymore and we have our own errands and problems to run, our own stress to face because in the end we're two different individuals, one probably really fucking stubborn the other who has anger issues within; how two people end up together is that they try their best to grind each other's flaws to be the puzzle piece for each other. 

it's hard when we argue sometimes i don't feel like talking to you but i still have to because this relationship is ours not just one persons and i can't be selfish as per usual and push you away, neglecting our relationship or neglecting you. 

i'm sorry that lately i haven't been the best girlfriend as we thought i would turn out, sometimes i get pissed out of nowhere and i try my best not to lash out on you because you hate that, i understand you hate when people get mad at you when you've done nothing wrong, i haven't been the best companion into understanding the stress that you are facing as a high schooler, a responsible student and a high achiever. it's not easy for you and sometimes i fail to understand that, i take advantage of you and make you apologize even i know it's my fault and i admit that i'm very stubborn, i talk back before people tell me the problem and try to solve it. most of the time i claim i understand people and their situations i understand their past but i'm not the best person because deep down i envy and i'm judging them. 
i'm still trying my very best to be positive and treat everyone good because i don't wanna treat someone badly just because i received bad treatment throughout my life. it's not worth it doing that to someone. i'm sorry trevor. 

speaking from my heart, i appreciate every single thing you do for me, like what you said to me "don't just appreciate just because i made it and actually do it". i actually appreciate it from my heart however there's no one else to blame and i wouldn't even try blaming it on anyone, it's my wrongdoing for how i'm lazy and irresponsible not properly accepting the gifts you're preparing for me. i don't want you to stop making things for me or stop sending me tons of updates on your whereabouts, it's been getting lesser but i don't wanna add on your stress to send more. i remember you once mentioned if i wasn't gonna reply to each of your updates, you wouldn't bother sending anymore. and i'm honestly afraid that that is happening right now i just don't acknowledge it yet. 

i'm sorry the world is being unfair to you when you're trying your best to work hard for it. i am trying my best to do better so i can support you, so you wouldn't have to suffer. i'm sorry for the lack of understanding and compromising from me. i will continue to support and help you in anyway possible, and better myself so i can do so. 

i don't know all the words to say, i don't know the perfect road to go down to help you, i'm holding my breath till i can find the right words to say so i don't bring harm to you because hurting you is the last thing i'd ever want to do. 

i'm sorry
i love you, happy half year

(bel)