> [!para]
> Although I don't believe I have changed a significant amount since the beginning of this semester, I do feel like my personal skills in time management, self motivation, and curiosity have been maintained fairly well. My main focus this semester was to be able to maintain those skills while taking on more responsibility in my collegiate career, and I feel like I have succeeded at that. I managed to both balance taking higher level classes while beginning to contribute to research here at Case.
> 
> Being scheduled until 10am every morning, including on days when I have this classes lab, may be seen as a shortcoming and a failure on my part to maintain proper time management. Looking back, I do agree that it would be been more optimal to have at least 5 minutes to be able to get to class on time as such to not waste anyone's time. On all other points than this, however, I feel like I have been able to maintain and improve my time management skills as my responsibilities greatly increased this semester. Having to do several team projects in this class also gave me opportunities to utilize my time well. Over the course of all the in-class projects, our team has never been late to submit anything or fallen behind in any task at all, to the point where we managed to complete almost all the necessary work well before class time was even over. I see this as an excellent application of time management and motivation to be able to complete our assignments plenty before the due date.
> 
> Teamwork was another aspect that this class has been able to impact me in. Being able to work tightly on teams every week on a range of tasks enforced my abilities to delegate work, resolve conflict, and ultimately work together as a team to accomplish a shared goal. While I have worked on several teams in the past, no class has been as focused on teamwork as this one as a core concept (except maybe ENGR 399). Writing the coffee processing script in particular took a lot of team coordination, as code has little leniency for variance. Working together to produce code that is able to interface with each other while still accomplishing a core task is an accomplishment I am proud of our team for reaching, especially without code version control like git as an assistance.
> 
> Overall, I am satisfied with my experience in this class as it has enabled be to reinforce my personal soft skills. Working on a team; planning ahead in both time and work; and maintaining a level of motivation both individually and on a team are all skills I find valuable not only throughout college but life in general. I do admit I still have a way to go on the never-ending journey of self-improvement, but I am thankful for this opportunity to be able to build upon my own efforts.
