# 1 "6"

Three blocks, are placed on a frictionless surface as shown above. Block A has a given mass of $m$, Block B has a given mass of $2m$ and Block C has a given mass of $5m$. Block A has initial velocity given as $v_0$ while the other two blocks are initially at rest. Then the following happens:

- First Collision: Block A collides with Block B and this collision is totally inelastic.
- Second Collision: Block B collides with Block C and this collision is totally elastic.

## a

Determine the final velocity of every block immediately after the First Collision.


## b

Determine the final velocity of every block immediately after the Second Collision.


## c

Suppose we define $V_{CM}$ as the velocity of the Center-of-Mass of the *entire system* of three blocks, A, B, and C. What is $V_{CM}$ just before the First collision. What is $V_{CM}$ just after this First Collision? What is $V_{CM}$ just after this Second Collision?

# 2

Three blocks A, B, and C with a given mass $m_A$, $m_B$ , and $m_C$ respectively, are positioned as shown above. Blocks B and C are accelerated to the left along the frictionless surface. The pulley is ideal as is the string between Blocks A and B. A massive rope of mass $m_r$ connects Blocks B and C. Assume that the rope sits flush on the frictionless surface so that there is no component of the tension in the vertical direction.

## a

Rank the four tension forces from largest to smallest. Explain how you determined this.
Hint: this is a *conceptual* question. No algebra or calculations required. Important hint: any solution that includes either of the words “system” or “motion” is probably not correct. You want to invoke a Law of Physics here.

## b

Determine the magnitude of the acceleration a of Block A. Explain your work. Give your answer in terms of the given parameters. Hint: you will simplify your calculation if you consider these three items: Blocks B, Block C and the massive rope, altogether, as one “system”.

## c

Assume that the massive rope has length $L$. Determine the tension *in the massive rope* as a function of horizontal position $x$ along the rope measured relative to the right edge of Block B. Give your answer in terms of the given parameters. Explain your work.

# 3

Leonard Nimoy stands on a platform and pulls on an ideal rope, which is attached to a system of ideal pulleys as shown:

The mass of Leonard is given as $m_l\equiv 50.0~kg$. The mass of the platform is given as
$mp30.0 kg$. The mass of a box that sits on the platform is given as mb ≡20.0 kg. Assume
that Leonard pulls the rope so that the platform moves upward with given constant acceleration
A0 ≡0.200 meters per second squared.