1. Identify an important theme in the text
2. Identify two examples that support this particular theme
3. Express your critical stance or opinion on this theme

> [!para]
> A theme in Thi Bui's *The Best we Could Do* is the uncertainty of truth and volatility of memory. Multiple times in the story Thi struggles with understanding her own and her parent's history as it is not nearly as polar as she would like to believe. On page 207, Thi questions, "Wait. Does he hate the general or is he defending him? Did he like communism or not?" and later cites the lack of clarity as "contradiction[s] in [her] father's stories." To Thi, this feels like her father does not even know what he believes, when her father was only trying to make the point that both sides have flaws and there wasn't an objective "right" in that situation. Earlier in the book there was a more glaring contraction about her father's presence at her birth. While during the time, it was uncommon for the father to be present for a birth, on page 19, her mother claims that "[she] labored alone … and [Thi's] father went to the movies!" Which in this context would be seen as a huge disrespect. Later, her father responds to the statement: "WHAT?! I never— Your mother's always saying things to make me look bad!" (62). The mother continues to maintain that Bo went to the movies, which leaves Thi unsure about what the real truth is. This could be due to the volatility of memory or manipulation of the truth. The idea of manipulation of the truth is revisited once again towards the end of the book in the Pulitzer Prize winning photo "Saigon Execution", which was not intentionally leaving out crucial details for the circumstance of the image, but still gets twisted to be used for propaganda. Bui notes other "oversimplifications" about the "The South Vietnamese" later on page 207, which are are all neither false or true, but a weird in between where it is not fully truthful. I think that the ability for Thi to point out these discrepancies and attempt to understand both sides of the conflict — both in the case of her own parents and on the scale of an international war involving American propaganda against the S. Vietnamese is a valuable skill for inching closer what "truth" is in all the uncertainties in the book. I believe these uncertainties are tied back and compared to the uncertainties of being a refugee later in the book. Illustrated beautifully on page 304, Thi states on the effects of her home 