# PHYS 122 HW 5

## 1

Dielectric interface

The $xy$ plane is the interface between two essentially infinite dielectric slabs. Each dielectric is uniformly polarized. $\vec P = P_1\hat k$ for $z < 0$ and $\vec P = P_2\hat k$ for $z > 0$.

### a

Determine $\sigma$, the surface density of bound charge at the interface.

Give your answer in terms of $P_1$ and $P_2$.

> [!answer]
> $\sigma_{bound}=\hat n\cdot\vec P_{1}-\hat n\cdot\vec P_{2}$
> $\sigma_{bound}=\hat n\cdot\hat k P_{1}-\hat n\cdot\hat k P_{2}$
> $\sigma_{bound}=P_{1}-P_{2}$
> $\square$

### b

Assume that the dielectrics are both linear. The one below the $xy$ plane has susceptibility $\chi_1$; the one above, $\chi_2$. Determine $E_1$ and $E_2$ the electric fields inside the two dielectrics.

Give your answer in terms of $P_1$, $P_2$, $\chi_1$, $\chi_2$, $\epsilon_0$ and $\hat k$.

> [!answer]
> $\vec E_{1}=\frac{\hat k P_{1}}{\chi_{1}\epsilon_{0}}$
> $\vec E_{2}=\frac{\hat k P_{2}}{\chi_{2}\epsilon_{0}}$
> $\square$

### c

What is the total charge density $\sigma_{tot}$ of the interface?

Give your answer in terms of $P_1$, $P_2$, $\chi_1$, $\chi_2$, $\epsilon_0$ and $\hat k$.

> [!answer]
> By Gauss law:
> $\sigma=\epsilon_{0}\hat n\cdot(\vec E_{1}-\vec E_{2})$
> 
> $\sigma=\frac{P_{1}}{\chi_{1}}-\frac{P_{2}}{\chi_{2}}$
> $\square$

### d

Now assume that there is no free charge at the interface. Determine $P_2$ in terms of $P_1$, $\chi_1$ and $\chi_2$.

> [!answer]
> $\sigma_{bound}=P_{1}-P_{2}$
> $\sigma=\frac{P_{1}}{\chi_{1}}-\frac{P_{2}}{\chi_{2}}$
> 
> $\sigma_{free}=\sigma-\sigma_{bound}$
> $=\frac{P_{1}}{\chi_{1}}-\frac{P_{2}}{\chi_{2}}-(P_{1}-P_{2})$
> $=\frac{P_{1}-\chi_{1}}{\chi_{1}}-\frac{P_{2}-\chi_{2}}{\chi_{2}}$
> $=0$
> 
> $\frac{P_{1}-\chi_{1}}{\chi_{1}}=\frac{P_{2}-\chi_{2}}{\chi_{2}}$
> $\frac{\chi_{2}(P_{1}-\chi_{1})}{\chi_{1}}=P_{2}-\chi_{2}$
> $P_{2}=\frac{\chi_{2}(P_{1}-\chi_{1})}{\chi_{1}}-\chi_{2}$
> $\square$

## 2

Charged dielectric sphere

A dielectric sphere of radius $a$ has free charge $Q$ uniformly distributed over its interior.

### a

What is the total charge of the sphere?

> [!answer]
> $Q$

### b

In what direction do you expect the electric field to point?

> [!answer]
> Away from the sphere, assuming the sphere has a positive charge

### c

Use Gauss’s law to determine the electric field external to the sphere for $r > a$ (where $r$ denotes distance from the center of the sphere).

> [!answer]
> 

### d

In the interior of the sphere let us assume that the electric field is given by $\vec E = E\hat r$.

Here $\hat r$ is a unit vector that points directly away from the center of the sphere. $E$ might vary with $r$, the distance from the center.

#### i

Assume the dielectric is linear with susceptibility $\chi$. What is the polarization inside the sphere?

Give your answer in terms of $E$, $\hat r$, $\epsilon_0$, and $\chi$.

#### ii

Consider a Gaussian surface of radius $r < a$. How much bound charge does the surface contain?

Give your answer in terms of $E$, $r$, $\epsilon_0$ and $\chi$.

#### iii

How much free charge does the Gaussian surface of part (ii) contain?

Give your answer in terms of $Q$, $r$ and $a$.

#### iv

Now apply Gauss’s law to the surface to determine $E$ in terms of $Q$, $r$, $a$, $\epsilon_0$ and $\chi$. Thus we have now determined the electric field both inside and outside the dielectric sphere.

#### v

Now determine the polarization $\vec P$ inside the sphere.

Give your answer in terms of $Q$, $r$, $a$, $\epsilon_0$ and $\chi$.

Hint: use the results of parts (i) and (iv)

#### vi

What is the polarization $\vec P$ outside the sphere?

#### vii

What is the surface density $\sigma_{b}$ of bound charge on the surface of the dielectric sphere?

Give your answer in terms of $Q$, $\epsilon_0$, $a$ and $\chi$.

## 3

Spherical capacitor

A conducting sphere of radius $a$ is surrounded by a conducting shell (inner radius $b$, outer radius $c$). The sphere has a charge $Q$; the shell, a charge $-Q$. The space between the sphere and the shell is filled with a linear dielectric with susceptibility $\chi$.

Assume the dielectric contains no free charge.

### a

What is the total charge of the system (sphere, shell and dielectric)? What is the electric field external to the shell (i.e. for $r > c$ where $r$ denotes distance from the center). Justify your answer.

> [!answer]
> $\vec E=\frac{-Q}{2\pi r^{3}\epsilon_{0}}\hat r$
> $Q_{tot}=Q-Q-\oint da~\hat n\cdot \chi\epsilon_{0}\vec E$
> $Q_{tot}=\oint da~\hat n\cdot \chi\frac{Q}{2\pi r^{3}}\hat r$
> $Q_{tot}=\oint da~\frac{\chi Q}{2\pi r^{3}}$

### b

What is the electric field in the interior of the conducting sphere? Where does the charge $Q$ reside?

### c

What is the electric field within the shell (for $b < r < c$)?

### d

Where does the charge on the shell reside? On the inner surface? The outer surface? Over both? Justify your answer.

### e

Now assume that the electric field in the dielectric region is $\vec E = E\hat r$ where $\hat r$ is a unit vector that points radially outward, away from the center. $E$ might depend on r.

#### i

Determine the polarization $\vec P$ inside the dielectric. Give your answer in terms of $E$, $\chi$, $\epsilon_0$ and $\hat r$.

#### ii

Consider a spherical Gaussian surface of radius $r$ with $a < r < b$. How much bound charge does it enclose? Give your answer in terms of $\chi$, $E$, $r$ and $\epsilon_0$.

#### iii

How much total charge does the Gaussian surface enclose? Give your answer in terms of $\chi$, $E$, $r$, $\epsilon_0$ and $Q$.

#### iv

Use Gauss’s law to determine the electric field $\vec E$. Give your answer in terms of $\chi$, $\epsilon_0$, $r$ and $Q$.

#### v

Determine the potential difference $V_2 - V_1$ where $V_2$ is the potential of the conducting shell and $V_1$ is the potential of the conducting sphere.

### f

Capacitance

A capacitor is a device that consists of two conducting “electrodes”. Usually one electrode has a positive charge; the other has an equal and opposite negative charge. The capacitance of the capacitor is defined as $C = \frac{Q}{V}$ where $Q$ is the charge on the positive electrode and $V = V_+ - V_-$ is the potential difference between the two electrodes.

#### i

Calculate the capacitance of the spherical capacitor analyzed in parts (a)-(e). Give your answer in terms of $a$, $b$, $\epsilon_0$ and $\chi$

#### ii*

You should find that $C \propto (1 + \chi)$. In the absence of a dielectric filling $\chi = 0$. Thus filling the space between the electrodes with dielectric enhances the capacitance by a factor of $1 + \chi$.

## 4

Capacitor and dielectrics

A parallel plate capacitor with plate area $A$ and plate separation $d$ is connected to a battery of voltage $V_0$. It is initially empty and then a dielectric slab of thickness $t$ (where $t < d$) and dielectric constant $\kappa$ (or $\chi$) is inserted between the plates such that it covers the entire plate area but doesn’t completely fill the space between the plates.

### a

Find the capacitance of the capacitor when it is empty.

### b

Find the capacitance of the capacitor after the dielectric is inserted.

### c

If the battery remains connected while the dielectric is inserted, by what factor does the energy stored in the capacitor change? Check your results for $t = d$ and $t = 0$ to see if your factor has the expected behavior.
