> [!para]
> ###### Isabel Goh
> ###### Trevor Nichols
> ###### cuz i wAnna
> ###### April 24, 2022
> 
> # hewo <3
> 
> Hi babe! i know i havent wrote you a letter in a while cuz ive been really busy, but since things just started to settle down, I wanted to write you something <3. Helluuuuzzzz i love you so much bebe !!!! I wanted to promise you that im still right here !! Its been nearly 4 months now and im still right where i said i would be :] theres no worry about me leaving babe im staying right here i promise promise :> and also since we always have to talk about it, yes i still think this relationship is super healthy and i really appreciate everything you do!
> 
> I know lately youre scared of me just disappearing or not loving you anymore, but i ASSURE you that is ABsolutely NOT the case. I am right here and love you just as much as i have, if not more :] I know we spent a lot of time apart lately, but as I have more free time, Ill spend more time on you i promise, like right now how youre at work and im writing this for you cuz i have a few minutes free :]! Originally i wanted to handwrite this and give it to you in person when you came to penang, but since I was free, i thought why not write one for you right now and write you another later :>, so here I am writing you another essay hehehhe >:)
> 
> First off, I wanna say thank you for everything, really. For being honest with me, for sticking with me even when youre crying, or even just telling me about the cockroach on your wall, I really love everything you do for me and i am so appreciative of it. I know sometimes I dont really show it that well, and that is my fault I am sorry, and I will do a better job of that in the future. But I still appreciate everything youve done for me so much. I look at my scrunchie everyday and it makes me happy, or i look at the ring on my necklace and want to put it on. Or even in the mornings when i see the book you wrote for me and I reread it just cuz I love it so much, and even the stones i have in the pocket everyday, or the trays i see on my desk everytime i sit down, even the lipgloss that i still sniff very often (and am kinda scared to use cuz i want it to last, yes i know you said that youll give me another but im still scaredddddd :<). Thank you for everything babe and ill do better at showing my appreciation in the future, ill work on it hard. Thank you for every little thing you do babe, really. Thank you for trying to do your best and being strong and working hard in what you do. I really honor your effort and am in awe at how well you can do.
> 
> ALSO! thank you for nomming when youre hungry :> it really makes me so happy to see my baby girl taking good physical care of herself as well as mentally. Thank you for not hurting yourself and for being open with your emotions, and I promise to be here to listen to how youre feeling all the time. Thank you for being strong and doing the right thing. Ill be here all the time to talk about your mental state cuz I really care about how youre feeling. Whatever youre feeling I hope you feel like you can tell me and not be scared, I really hope youre not scared of me at all im doing my best.
> 
> Whenever you feel like theres something I can do better or something you dont understand about me, please let me know! Anything youre unsatisied about, just tell me and Ill do my best to work on it till its better for you. If theres something you dont understand like why wont i just do this or why did i do that or when i said that what does it mean? If youre ever just curious, just ask me, cuz open communication is very important to me and ill always give you an honest answer i promise. I feel like I can tell you anything and thank you for being there to listen to me and to offer me advice all the time, it really means a lot to me
> 
> Sorry for not being present all the time, lately i have been super busy with things, but I promise im not ignoring you, im just making sure what i need to get done gets done so that i can be with you. I really wish i could spend more time with you babe but im sorry im not always right here with you, but im doing my best to be here as much as i can. i really am sorry :<
> 
> As for any worries you have about us, I feel like we can still practically get through anything. i really appreciate our openness to talk about anything and i think it allows us to solve anything that comes our way, and i am really proud that we have gotten to this point. I truly trust you with everything, love. The things youve been working on in yourself have also been going amazing babe. you really are doing a great job at pushing yourself to do better and i really appreciate your effort, a lot. you truly are an amazing person and i love you so much babe ðŸ«€
> 
> I promise you you are enough for me, you really are. You are a truly amazing person and i could not realistically ask for more out of a person. thank you for being who you are and thank you for doing your best in everything you do, i know it takes a lot of effort and i hope im giving you enough recognition :< you are a really good person babe and if anyone tells you otherwise, they are just being mean to you and are blinded by jealousy. I love you so much for everything you are and everything you will be. I love your personality, mind, heart, and even your soul. Thank you for being in my life, i really love your prescence and thank you for helpingme become who i am today, i owe a lot to you. 
> 
> I hope to continue on everyday forward with you in my life. I enjoy every moment with my love ðŸ’ and i wish i can spend every moment with you. I love you so much babe and I AM SO LOOKING FORWARD TO SEEING YOU AGAIN :DDDD
> 
> \- your baby that needs his diapers changed ðŸ’©