> [!para]
> ###### Trevor Nichols
> ###### Isabel Goh
> ###### For no reason
> ###### 21 Feb 2022
> 
> # Looking Forward
> 
> I know we went through a lot of problems lately and I just want to reassure you that im sticking around. Weve already gone through a lot and im so proud that we are and will be able to make it through this. I know it hurts a lot when things go wrong, especially when it feels like it might be coming to an end. But throughout the whole time, I always had hope and I continued to fight for us because I know this is good. I know its sometimes hard to believe me that ill be sticking around, but I have not broke that ever, and i wont. even through our latest torment and uncertainties, i stuck with you and stayed with you the whole time. I only ask that you wont push me away even in these circumstances, I wont do it to you and i dont want you to do it to me either.
> 
> First off, I have no reason to ever leave you. You have only been good for me, supporting me in what i do, encouraging me to do good things, keeping me healthy, as well as just making my life more fun and interesting. You truly understand me, something that I believe no one else i know possesses, your knowledge of me and how to support me. I am so thankful that you are in my life and I wish i can only measure up slightly to you compared to what you are to me. I would be lying if i said that i never worried about us. I worry a lot, but that doesnt mean that im giving up on us. I am still here and I will keep being here. I wont give up, so you can count on me staying around.
> 
> Secondly, I really love you so much. I only want to do what best for you and i care so much for you. sometimes it gets hard to keep going especially when it feels like youre pushing me away, but i wont decrease my effort or care even then. I promised to would always give it my all and i would never stop being consistent in my effort, and so i plan to keep it that way. I know sometimes it feels like im not doing much, but i promise im doing my best to balance everything in my life and make time for you as well. Im not getting tired of you, and i never will. But yes, i do get physically tired sometimes and im sorry i cant always be awake for you and i hope you can understand that.
> 
> You will always be enough for me. Literally anything you do for me i appreciate so much and i wish you would keep doing things for me. I know that sometimes you feel like i dont appreciate your work enough, and im sorry i make you feel that way, but inside i am eternally stunned at any little thing you do. Even just looking at the scrunchie thats always on my wrist makes me smile so much. I know i dont have money right now, but one day ill be making money and ill be able to do bigger things for you, and ill work hard for that. 
> 
> I feel like the longer we are together, the stronger our trust gets. And im so proud of that. I already trust you with all of me, but as you trust me more it makes me feel more and more at home and more natural just to talk about deep things. I really appreciate all the time we can spend together covering not only superficial topics, but also deep ones and have meaningful conversations about it as well. I just love talking to you, whether it be about something serious or just playing with izzie. Every moment spent with you feels like a good investment of my time, building something that will last and trust in. 
> 
> Thank you for everything you do, really. I know i say this a lot, but every little thing you do quashes any insecurity i have or any worries i have for you. And not only does it reassure me, it also makes me feel good when you do anything for me. i hope that you feel comfortable and good when you do things for me and and not pressured to do anything. I really love everything you do and I love you as well. Thank you so much for everything, including supporting me in whatever I do, making sure i manage my time, watching out for my health, and even trying to make sure i sleep. Ill also do my best to watch out for you too and make sure to do all the little things cuz i know you love it too. But really, thank you for showing me what its like to be cared for.
> 
> I love you so much babe and my love will only grow over time. In every thing we do i fall harder and harder for you and damn idek if i can even imagine of stopping. Thanks for getting through all these hard times togehter, and i cant promise there wont be more, but i assure you i will consistently work hard to stay here and continue the little things even though our low points. I love you so much and ill do anything to keep your hard earned love. I love you so much Isabel â¤.
> 
> -your favorite walking cane that you sometimes forget to use, pmis