> [!para]
> 
> ###### Trevor Nichols
> ###### Isabel Goh
> ###### Valentine's Day
> ###### Feb 16, 2022
> 
> # Happy Valentines's day! :>
> 
> Happy Valentines day, again! It has been such an honor to know you for so long already and I hope we can continue on this path. Everyday we speak I feel at home and relaxed. Even if I am not feeling my best, when Im around you I get a small sense of relief and relaxation that you are just with me helping me though my problems and just being present. I've spent the past hour and a half about researching healthy relationships, what love is, how to self-love, how to trust, and other various little things and I've came to a few conclusions. First off I would like to say that you are doing amazing, both to yourself and to me. The amount of effort you put into helping me, being there for me, just thinking about me, or even doing things for me is astronomical, and the amount of effort you are beginning to put into yourself is also something I recognize. I am so happy that you are eating regularly and prioritizing properly, such as getting work done by focusing, or just hanging out with friends and having a balanced social life. I know there are a few things you worry about and I want to address those first. 
> 
> I know youre scared of me not lasting a few months, and it makes sense youre scared, but I can only assure you that I will remain here for as long as youll allow me. Through the whole time Ive known you, I never once ignored you or been short with you and I plan to keep it that way. Yes, I do get agitated sometimes like a regular human and im so thankful you understand that, but I will still do my absolute best to make sure that the amount of times im agitated stays as close to 0 as possible, and I am quite confident I can do that. There is really not much I can give to you other than my words to reassure you that I will stay here because I cant tell the future and you cant either, but as usual, we can make preditions based off of historical trends. This is something I have thought a lot about, so Im not taking this lightly. We have been able to stick to each other through all kinds of problems, but it honestly may not seem as much because of how well we can handle things. Even when I was in the rain and I got agitated, you still gave me a second chance and allowed me to try again even though I already knew that you have trust problems and I did something I can never recover from. Throughout any problem weve been through, we have been able to talk it out and be open to one another, something that is highly valued as a sign of a healthy relationship. Not only can we communicate to each other, but we can forgive one another and help each other heal afterwards. I cannot express this enough, but I am so thankful that we have the connection and I am so proud of how far weve come together. From everything you do for me and everything i try to do for you, I think that we can make it through anything. The amount of strength you have and with my will, I think we make a pretty much impossible combo for any challenge. As for lasting a longer time, I think if we can maintain something like this, we will surely last forever. And according to historical data, we have only ever grown stronger through everything, even through the problems. All relationships have their ups and downs and I am so glad that we can ride through valley and peeks and still come out stronger than before. And if everything continues on this trend, we will only continue to get stronger in one another.
> 
> I know another thing you worry about is hurting each other. But with the same lines of reasonings, we can make it through anything. Yes, sometimes we do accidentally hurt each other, and we do make mistakes, and thats only human. The ability to recover healthily is something i believe we both possess, and something i definitely value greatly. To me, Ive already been convinced that neither of us will ever intentionally hurt one another, so when I do get hurt I only see it as an unintentional side effect. I trust that you only want the best for me and I hope you can see that in me too. I only ever want the best for you but sometimes I dont watch my words carefully and I say things that dont say what I mean. And other times im just mad and say hurtful things that I in my right mind would never mean, and I am sorry for those mistakes I really am. And for you, if you ever make something like that I will always forgive you. But me forgiving is not an excuse for you to continue doing it without reprimand either, but you should still know that I would always come back to you. Every time we have accidentally hurt one another, we have rebounded beautifully and grew back stronger, and that is something I think we can both maintain for times to come.
> 
> The last thing i think you worry about is not being enough for me. Isabel, deep inside me I already believe you are an amazing person and I know I say that a lot but I cannot think of a more representative word than that other than awesome in its original meaning (full of wonder and awe). I find it kinda sad how that word has lost its meaning. And you will always continue to hold that position in me. Like Ive said before, your resolve, mindset, and will to continue on top of the amount of effort you put, the amount of care you have for me, all the times you think of me, as well as how pretty you are, are all things I deeply appreciate you for. And if you thought that some of those things are temporary things, I did separate them into two lists for you to easily distinguish them :>. But even if you do change and some things are different, I will continue to love you for those too and make sure that you know how I feel. You will always be more than enough for me and you are surely amazing for that. I love you for everything you are right now, and everything you will be if you change. It is not only the you right now i love, but the you inside that will never change. You make me happy for no real reason and I just enjoy sitting around you and doing homework or any other little thing, being around you makes it much better. Dont get me wrong, I still love the you right now and your looks as well and I wish i could see you more often, but even if i dont, I love you. And honestly, yes sometimes just looking at you gets me horni, but it is not necessarily your looks that get me horni, its you as a person and who you are that I love (altho youre hella hot still). I know you dont think youre very pretty, but im not joking when I say youre prettier to me than anyone Ive seen, including whatever "pretty" girl you show me on instagram. You have a natural beauty no one else possesses and you dont need to pretend to be anything else to show that off. And if you are scared that I only like the idea of you, I hope you notice that my willingness to stick with you through change assures you that I love you for the real you.
> 
> And for your problems, I will always be around to help you. I know you go through a lot on a daily basis, whether it be taking a beating from your mom or her words or just keeping up with homework, and I really admire your strength to push through it all. Even if times get tough, I know you can get through it, with my help and your strong will you can accomplish anything you put your mind to. I know your life is one full of challenges, but I promise to be there to help you through every single one if youll let me. I know sometimes all you need is just a little encouragement, but im willing to do more than just what you need, to help you with what you want as well. I will be here do help you accomplish anything within my ability :>. 
> 
> And for your self love, I believe you are doing great. You are beginning to eat more food, which is a sign of caring for yourself and i really thing thats great. Every step you take, i am immesurably proud of you, because there are some things i cannot do for you, like i can love you for every amazing thing you are, but i cannot make you love yourself. And i am so glad you are slowly moving in that direction. I will ofc continue to try and help you take more steps, but I just want to say thank you for being willing to do this and i am so happy from all the progress you have made. 
> 
> And for trust issues, I also think you are moving along very well. You are trusting me more and more and telling me all the little things. I feel like you dont ever hide anything from me anymore (except for that surprise essay you wrote which definitely surprised me :D). And I am so happy you are healing from your wounds and allowing me to help you piece your heart back together one piece at a time. No matter how many shards I need to glue back together, I will find every last grain and reassemble your heart till its whole. And any parts that are missing, I will share my heart with you. Thats what it means to love someone, to be willing to sacrifice and help them through no matter what, and I truly love you. 
> 
> As for what I will continue to do, I will continue to put in my full effort. I will continute to work hard to make you whole again and to help you move on from past trauma. I will give you my all, money, time, effort, it doesnt matter. Whats mine is yours and I will always share it with you. Only thing I hope is that you dont feel guilty when you recieve from me. There is a balance. You give me plenty and its only right for me to repay you back. Not only that, but my giving comes from my heart. Inside it truly makes me happy to be able to produce anything for you or give you any part of me, so i with you wouldnt feel guilty for me pouring my heart out to you. I really want to share my life with you and hopefully you wont feel guilty about that one day :>.
> 
> Now that was enough about worries so ill move on to the happier part :>. I am so thankful youre always there for me. Even though youre sometimes busy, youre doing plenty and still reassure me all the time. Whenever im feeling down, you console me, even if i think im doing okay, you know me so well that you know when im down better than i do. thank you for making sure im always fine and for clarifying my emotions and thoughts. you being there for my definitely has relieved some internal stresses and pressures and it feels good to let it out finally. One article i read earlier about learning how to trust people said that you can compare keeping stuff in and not trusting people as holding your breath, it takes a lot of effort to hold it in and its very relieving once you breathe again. I feel like youve relieved that pressure for me and I feel very free to be able to express myself and be authentic. And i only have to you to credit for it. Thank you for understanding me so well and knowing what its like to be in my shoes. I will always do my best for you and thank you for knowing that. I will always keep encouraging you and im thankful that you encourage me. Thank you for understanding everything I do and still continue to encourge me. I know we both are going through hard times and it really means a lot to me that both of us can be here to support each other. 
> 
> I love everything you do for me as well. All the effort you put in i dont want to it go unrecognized. I admire everything you do and i appreciate it tons. Everytime you do anything at all related to me it makes me feel the best. All the notes, research, gifts, thoughts, and reminders are small but super meaningful things to me. Everything you put in, I will always do my best to do more back for you, so you dont have to worry about me lacking effort. Even during the times you need to focus and when we arent constantly together, I still feel your love with me and your care really has made an impact on me for the better. Thank you for making me a better person through all the effort you put in me. Every mistake I made and unhealthy habit I have you make sure to try and encourage me and guide me to what it should be. I truly feel like I have bettered as a person due to you and I owe a crapton to you and Ill work back forever to repay it.
> 
> I love you so much babe and I will continue to. Literally anything you do touches my heart. Just being around you make it a great time. You are a really special person to me and I only ever want to share my full self with you and I hope one day you can with me too. I will be your and i hope you can be mine forever. I love you so much and thank you for giving me the time of my life, and may it continue to stretch on forever. I love you, Isabel, so much, with all my heart.