> [!para]
> ###### Trevor Nichols
> ###### Isabel Goh
> ###### Cuz i havent in a while
> ###### Mar 17, 2022
> 
> # :D i love you
> 
> HIHI BABY! Theres so much happenning lately and its finally nice to be able to take a step back and chill. I wanted to just say that im definitely going to stick around. I know that sometimes you worry about it and I know i say it a lot, but im just saying it again to make sure you know full well i mean it. And as i told you before im not going to just simply stop loving you. I will keep on loving you for as long as i can, as long as you dont push me away or give me a reason to, but even then, Im still willing to be forgiving and love you anyway. We can get through practically everything and I hope you will keep working with me moving forward. I also am very aware about keeping this relationship healthy and strong and I am giving my best effort to make sure it remains that way.
> 
> I think the first thing i should address is how much I love you. I really do love you a lot and i think its quite evident in everything i do for you and the amount of effort i put in (i hope its enough). I truly want whats best for this relationship and will keep pushing until there literally is no better place to go. I really really really wanna spend more time with you cuz I feel like lately both of us have gotten quite busy. But I assure you, even if we dont spend much time together I still love you so much and am not thinking about going to anyone else. I will not get tired of you and I wont get annoyed at you i promise. Please tell me every little thing about your life cuz im just interested in it and itll be fun to talk about that random cockroach that slipped under your door, seriously. 
> 
> Lately we have ran into very few arguements with each other, and I see that as a good thing. I feel like this is related to your trust issues you previously had and it really seems to me like they have made so much of an improvement and I am proud of that. You are truly making great progress with visible results. I still truly trust you with literally everything and I am still awaiting the day you learn to trust me fully back. This used to be a big problem that you saw in yourself, and personally, now, its effects on your conduct are significantly reduced and it truly is a great step in my eyes. And as i mentioned before, we can talk about literally anything comfortably and I hope it feels the say way for you too.
> 
> Thank you for all the support you give me, in everything. Sometimes it gets hard for me and it is so amazing to have you by my side, supporting me on the way. It truly helps keep me motivated to not only live but also to work hard and produce quality results. Thank you for understanding my situation and providing support in practically every area of my life. Supporting me in my studies. Supporting me in my mentality. Supporting me in my sociality. Everything you do for me matters and I wanna give a big thank you for that. Thank you for offering every bit of reassurance I need, as much as i hope that i can offer for you. Also, thank you for every little gift you make for me or every little thought you think of me. It really touches my heart how much you care for me and I wish I could repay you for it. And for that note thing you started writing for me a while ago im still waitititntngnngng kekekek, dont think that ive forgotten that, cuz i absolutely havent. Thank you for making me a better person all around. 
> 
> Im not too sure if you still worry about not lasting to 5 months, I just want to remind you that Im still right here where I said I would be. I promised I would stay and I a staying. Trust me when I tell you that Im doing my absolute best to stick around and make sure that I can continue to stick around and be with you. I absolutely love being around you and I would not want to give that up. One reason why im so confident is because of how we can rebound from trouble. We can quickly get over problems and figure things out and I really value that. But at this point im fairly certain that youre convinced that im going to stick around, sheerly based on how we survived tough circumstances in the past, like when I was out in the rain or when I was just crying today. I thank you so much for being there for me and reassuring me no matter what. At this rate, we would last waaaaaay longer than 5 months :>
> 
> And recently I know youre scared of annoying me or me falling out of love for you or just agitating me in general. But I promise you, you wont end up annoying or agitating me unless you are intentionally trying to do so. Just spamming me tiktoks, leaving me 329 messages when I fall asleep, or sending 48 bubbles while im at lunch definitely wont annoy me, infact I would love it if you did, cuz I love every little detail of your life. i realllly do want to know everything about your life, so if you dont mind sharing, i would appreciate being able to learn every little bit of it.
> 
> I love literally everything about you and I wanted to remind you of that incase you forgot :D. I love your personality, your mindset, your resolve, stuff that i deeply value in you and I feel like i say those three things a lot, but to me they still are what I find amazing in you. You really surprise me with how fun you are, how forgiving you can be, how caring and loving you are. I love every bit about you. This also ties into your self care, which I also believe is getting much better in yourself. I do love your looks, and your face is beautiful. Your body is amazing, but not in a manipulative manner. I love everything about you and it would only grow by the day <3
> 
> And for self care, I think you are loving yourself more, and I appologise that this morning I was being so harsh on myself, that was a bad example of exactly what we should not do. But also I also want to just remind you that when you love yourself, make sure to keep yourself in check too. Make sure you arent loving yourself so much that you forget that everyone is not perfect. You are beautiful, and you are amazing, but no one is perfect. I struggle with this too infact, how you always point out not to get too confident in myself in my studies, and thank you for pointing that out as well, that is a healthy relationship where we can both build each other up. I do ask that when we are offering sometimes painful constructive feedback that we would take it well and understand that the other only wants the best for you. Like when i forced you to eat a little bit, I may have sounded a bit harsh, but eating something when youre hungry is important. I hope that both of us would be able to understand that in each other when we are only trying to help. Thank you for helping me as well, and showing me what is important to care about. Thank you for listening to me, and possibly even conversing to me about it so that we both can reach a deeper understanding. 
> 
> As I always say, communication and trust are key. And I still do believe that. Thank you for communicating and trusting in me. Over time, I really feel how our communication have refined and how we can more easily communicate ideas to each other without misunderstandings. And for trust, as I have covered earlier, thank you for trusting me, and I will continue to trust in you. Your efforts are not going unnoticed and thank you for every little tiny small thing you do for me, it really means a lot.
> 
> Thank you for everything you are and everything you strive to be. I want to support you all the way through if youd let me. I love doing every little thing with you and I hope that can continue. At the moment I am missing you quite a lot because you went to take a nap and i really miss you, oh you just texted me hehehehhee. Well i will keep loving you more and more as the days pass and I really want to be with you for a veryyyy long time. Thank you for everything youve done, and I really hope im doing enough for you.
> 
> \- yours and only yours, trevor
> 