**Her**, [27/1/22 2:28 PM]
i woke up abit later than ive expected but i hope you're focusing well in class since i didn't wanna be a bother im sorry for keeping u up last night as well since you have class today i feel bad for keeping you awake i promised a paragraph so i'm typing it rn it won't be the best cus im still half awake and i haven't showered however i hope its readable 
you've asked me what i like about you truthfully im not sure either, probably its the gentle tone you speak to me in, your voice, your physical appearance in the mirror. false. this isn't what i like about you, your appearance can change your voice can change, this isn't what i like. something deeper attracts me in putting me in a zen place where im allowed to sit down quietly to just listen and the sound of your soft touch right in my ear. to be frank, would be your presence. your presence has taught me that only the ones who are fond of me truly would do anything to be in my touch. those who are not making effort, don't deserve my touch. your existence gave me a helping hand out of the dark pit back into broad daylight whilst your concentration and patience, understanding has attracted people who completely don't deserve it. some people feel cold to the touch which goes deep to the core, some are warm. some get cold and hot at the same time it confuses the shit out of people. despite being hurt, you have never been cold to the touch, we're polar opposites however still able to get along pretty well. been stuck in an endless cycle that no one gives a shit about us and we're now best friends. i don't understand, we just hit it off like we knew each other for years. the extra thought you put in just to make me happy although you haven't acted on it makes me feel appreciated. the calls late night just to stream homework, the money and thought to spoil me on the things i love, the constant updates of what you're up to it was all i ever wanted and wanted to find someone who would never get tired of doing it for me. i know i come with alot of issues a baggage full but im letting go slowly and healing each day thanks to everyone around me including you 🤍

**Her**, [1/2/22 1:32 AM]
hi trevor 🥰 happy 16th birthday and happy chinese new year, it's an honour to be spending this day with you 💗 it's honestly been such an adventure spending time with you each day you get more in love with me each day im learning and growing while having you by my side. day by day im learning to heal and love again although its been hard for me. you're always so patient with me and all my problems. you always finding new ways to keep me happy and on track, worrying i might fall off anytime. because of all the things we've been through im feeling better, no more crying to sleep each night. having someone validate my feelings even if i feel its the dumbest reason to be upset or angry 🥺❤️ thank you for spoiling me on giving me the best things i want even if its out of your control or price to pay for. with someone being by my side i told you ill fall for them and i think i already did. people might complain about me moving on too fast but i think it's just the right time, however i don't wanna date yet. thank you for always waiting for me and never leaving me behind even if im a lazy ass that just sits by the corner and continues to be sad. thank you for putting your most effort in keeping me safe and mentally healthy from all the thoughts I've been through 🥺💗 thank you my baby

**Her**, [3/2/22 7:43 AM]
i wakey but im about to fall back asleep but i also wake up cus i missed you 🥺 i appreciate that you're giving me your all rather than just saying so cus im too tired to be settling for less than that :( you always make time and effort to reassure me when im feeling doubts about anything 🤍 the future is unclear but as long as we work together i see you in it, they said as you grow older money has to be a main factor under your basics of a relationship because without money you basically can't survive, i know the stress it takes having to earn money and being seen as the money maker role in such a young age. im letting u know that even if you're broke now ill wait and help u by ur side 🥰 no rush cus ur still in highschool. i just hope that you have your own plan and responsibility making sure we don't starve 🤍 ill try to let u know everything even if it bothers me lots with myself thinking im a burden hmph. the more your efforts come clear to me the more sure i am to fall for you 🥺 im trying my best to properly heal and completely heal so i could love you properly and fully as well, without any guilt and holes especially love you as a whole. thank you for making me feel like im home and im worth being loved 🥰❤️

*Him*, [4/2/22 10:58 PM]
Hewo baby
I wanna say that I'm still really sorry for today and I promise to do betterrrr. I hope other than that you had a great day baby <3 I'm sorry I can't be rich or always free or super strong or anything like that but I promise you I'm going my best to make you happy :> I miss you a lot all the time and I wish I could talk to you more often but one of us always happens to be busy :/ I love you a lot and I wanna spend my life with you so help me get there pleaseee I know you still wanna wait before you wanna date me and I understand, but also every time you tease me about it I just so excited and it's just a tease ;-;;;; aaaaaaaaa but it's okay hahaha I half enjoy it. I wanna make more time to spend with you. At this point I don't really know what to say cuz I'm going to pass out but I really care for you and I'll always be here. I want to make more time to spend with you because we so busy lately :> I hope you'll one day realize that you're an amazing person and that maybe you'll love me back tooooo I'll stop at nothing to keep loving you I love you baby
Your favorite p⭐️ pmis

**Her**, [5/2/22 6:11 AM]
i know you're sound asleep right now so i'll send you this paragraph to read incase i get up later cus i was kinda supposed to send it later
anyways ill just leave this here for you to wake up to
this took me a lot of thinking and constant typing to come up with so be patient with me if i somewhat don't make sense in some parts. 
from the day i met you up till now i felt like we mostly click in the most parts we talk about and we relate to each other in a way it's special for one another, i wouldn't say we met each other at our worst times but i still wanna say thank you for staying as a friend. thank you for willing to change as a person and grow as a person when someone tells you what you're doing wrong instead of running from it constantly. i know sometimes you feel like oh i've did nothing wrong and they're hating me for no reason, you're still willing to change and accept what other have to correct you about.
i haven't heard you speaking negatively of yourself and your personality for awhile, as i said it's a big improvement coming from someone who everyone thinks everything he does is wrong and unacceptable, someone who is quote on quote too young and because his vibes doesn't match anyone around him. i'm very glad things worked out for you while i was alongside you to guide you to the right path. i'm not a saint nor a godly figure but it felt like an honor to see someone that i've helped having such a huge improvement personally. 
for someone who's supposed to pick on everything, ace in class, be incredibly good at cleaning and baking, the pressure is always there. it just never stops and the lack of sleep becomes a disturbance and a whole blockage for the unrested mind to shut down when it's going to bed. 
its truly impossible to be perfect at everything whilst having eyes on you all the time, therefore i've given you a space to express and be yourself, a space away from the constant spotlight shining on your head. a space that doesn't require you to be perfect to succeed. you make mistakes, and its only because you're equally like everyone else which is that you are human. you don't stop making mistakes because you want to learn and as a soulmate, they have to be understanding when it comes to mistakes you've made unless they've tried to communicate it with you many times but you ignored it.
there's no need to hide who you are around people who care for you, no matter what you turn out like, they'll accept you and guide you. its not easy to find a group of people who are willing to do so, let alone a certain person who will do it. i'm trying my hardest to learn to trust you and forgive you for your past mistakes like how you're doing to me on my side with all my flaws and holes that are left unpatched or harsh voids that tear open occasionally leaving a huge scratch directly on your face. everyday i'm going to heal i'm going to be better just like you said, with that being said i'm very thankful to have you guide me like how i guided you right from the start.
it's close to impossible to be healing alone for someone who has been hurt really deeply however the constant encouragement of yours leads me to a brighter path rather the darker one the old me prefers to set foot in. extremely grateful to find someone who's willing to accept me for who i am even if i drool in my sleep and i laugh like a fucking shrek character or a window wiper. it's just the first month and the consistency is there but i'm honestly from the bottom of my heart waiting to if the consistency can survive for a long time due to all the relationships/friendships not being able to make it past the 4th-5th month. so i'm just waiting to see what rolls out to me what comes out to me. 
for me, effort means the most. if you're not putting in effort then i won't either because it goes both ways and its 2022 i don't wanna lose myself by loving someone else again. i don't want to waste my energy on someone who isn't consistent with their effort and roll lies out to me, playing their cards like a fucking trash bag game in the arcade or poker race. i'm glad you're willing to make changes after apologizing when you make a mistake so i don't lose feelings or go to bed upset. fuck whoever told you telling someone good morning everyday is annoying, fuck whoever that told you your existence was a bother or a threat to their life or them personally. they don't deserve you at all. there's nothing wrong with liking bean water according to some stupid American that picks at you for nothing in class. you're not weird and stupid you're just contained and special.
i don't think this was a very wholesome paragraph but its what i wanna tell you honestly about everything that's been going on, its very different from all the paragraphs i've sent you, vie kept each one closely in my mind, saved each and everyone to re-read when i'm feeling overwhelmed. 
its 3am right now, i'm going to bed. don't need to worry about me staying up cus i'll get a nap during the afternoon somehow or evening. i hope when you get up tomorrow i'm not awake yet, you're having a good breakfast a good lunch, whilst finish running your errands such as getting to the store and getting a new charger reloading your wallet in case you need money. (reminder in case u forget, not trying to nag you) 
goodnight and goodmorning
- her <3

*Him*, [11/2/22 11:31 AM]
hewo bebe
goood morning i mished you a lottt ;-; thank you for being so understanding of me especially when I lashed out on you a little that day, im still so thankful you understand and gave me a second chance. Thank you for everything else you do for me too, doing things I don't see right now, preparing things for me, researching for me, thinking of me often, and just being around for me all the time, im really thankful. I wish you would continue doing all that for me, I really love it all. Ever since i met you i felt like things just made sense, we can understand each other and support each other in everything we do, although we do agree on a lot of things im also appreciative that youre willing to try and change for the better, and I am too, thank you for helping me change and thank you for being willing to change as well. I know sometimes I feel a little distant from you and that youre very busy or dont want to talk to me, but most of the time thats just me worrying about small things and blowing it up in my head when theres really nothing wrong, Im sorry I do that but im trying to make sure I dont do it again. Im very proud of how far youve come, from trying to change to actually changing and Im really proud of what youve done. Im glad you overthink less, im glad youre more understanding, im glad youre not self harming or having a hurtful self image, im glad youre trusting more, im glad you care for yourself more than you did. Im so proud of everything youve done and it really makes me happy. Most of all, im happy that youre beginning to trust me, but also understand that sometimes I cant do everything, you believe in my effort and im so happy you can understand that. I know its really hard to trust someone, and we havent known each other for the longest time, but we definitely have spent a lot of time together and I feel like weve already gone though a lot. Thank you for trusting in me and growing in this relationship together. The other thing I promised to work on with you is your self image and self love and I want to say that I think that youre doing quite well (minus the part where you say youre ugly everyday) youre beginning to see your worth in this world (i think) and I hope it only continues to go that direction (but not until youre narcissistic). I also want to especially thank you for being there for me and helping me not only mentally, but also academically and physically (sleep). You definitely have made me a much better person and i owe it all to you <3. Thank you for digging sometimes when I dont know how or what to tell you, and for helping me clarify my own thoughts. However, I do also with that you would also be open with me in return. I know sometimes you dont know why youre agitated or why you feel uncomfortable, but i do too! Its normal. Sometimes you dont understand, but please dont hide it from me. Sometimes im a little agitated and I dont know why, and im sorry it comes off as me not wanting to tell you, but sometimes I dont know how or what to say, and your questions for me really help me think and understand my own thoughts. I know your life is really hard recently, being on period and school pressure, yet you still find time for me and I know its a lot for you to do and I want to recognize this tremendous effort and stress youre going through. I too, am very busy lately and I want to thank you for being there to help me (yes, again). Im also here for you though, to share your pains and stress, anything really. Anything you find hard ill be here to try and help you. Any time of day, anything im doing, ill do my best to be there for you. Sleep can wait, movie can wait, food can wait. And i also wanna say theres practically nothing i would get mad at unless youre blaming me for my past, cheating, ignoring me (without reason), or not prioritizing me at all (without explanation). But even if it might make me mad or uncertain, ill do my best not to get angry and I still want you to tell me so that we can clarify it. Clarification is important and sometimes it involves going through hardships. I know we can get through a lot of hardships solely based on how we can handle things. I trust you a lot, so please dont lie to me. I really love you and care for you <3 and ill always be here. And if youre worried about me not sticking around, well i will so give me the chance to prove it. I know youre worried about me changing or getting lazy and not putting effort in, but I assure you there will always be time for you and I will always do my best to make you feel the best 😏 and have the least uncertainties. I will always want you around and talk to you, I will basically never need alone time (but i still want time to do some secret stuff for you kekekek). wow this paragraph suddenly got super serious sowwy. I love you very much and i hope we can grow together continuing on. I care about everything you do and I dont want you to resist sharing any small thing with me, like how i share everything with you. Everything you do I find super cool. You are a truly amazing person and hella pretty at the same time, its crazy. I love you so much and good morning ❤️
simp's pmis

*Him*, [15/2/22 11:58 AM]
hewwo bebe
i-i-i just wanted to say hewwo kekeke i really appreciate everything youve done for me and youll always be enough, more than enough, but not too much for me. Youre amazingly open and trusting with me and i know that takes a lot of effort, and i want to recognize that so it doesnt feel like its going to waste. I want to recognize everything youve done for me and say thank you for everything, even when youre agitated or mad, you still try and be patient with me and you still stick with me even when i screw up or make a mistake and i am so thankful that you allow me to stay here with you because i really love you and I want to stay with you for as long as youll let me ❤️ anything you do for me, it doesnt go to waste and I want you keep on doing it and i hope you dont feel like your effort is going to waste. I know you feel uncertain about how along Ill stick around but i have a strong feeling that wont go away that ill stay here. My feelings for you have not gone down one bit since i started loving you and it only grows larger. im pretty much 100% sure it wont ever go down cuz its only been growing larger through the whole time. I know youre really scared of loving me because of how many times youve been broken before and i know how that feels, but i dont want you to feel pressured or forced into loving me, it has to come naturally. Just let it come naturally over time as i prove myself to you and i dont want you to hide your feeling or suppress them or feel bad for how you feel, just feel what you feel and we can deal with it together :>. I know i promised that i would stay with you through all your problems and through all of mine and I still promise that and im not going to let that down. I love every moment I spend with you, even if were just on discord call and youre muted and video off and im just sitting there with you, i still enjoy spending the time with you. I feel like just spending time with you even if we dont do anything is good use of my time and i love it a lot. I wish we could do more things together but i also understand that both of us are busy with things most of the time and i hope that one day we will free up and have some fun. I know sometimes i get bummed out or sad that we dont get to do things together, but its more important for both of us to complete our higher priorities. Im proud that you can stay so focused and work so hard for so long and i am in awe of how you are dedicated to finishing things. I wish i could help you more throughout all these problems but sometimes i cant :<. And whenever youre angry or agitated i promise ill remain patient with you and i wont get mad back, ill understand and diffuse the situation, and i wish you would continue to do that for me too, im so thankful you do. Yes, I am still working on my finance problems but but but you know its valentines so its an excuse to spend more money right kekekkeke :», and for you, youre doing great at self love, slowly, as well as trusting me, i know its hard and i know youre trying really hard and youre doing great, youre always doing enough, more than enough and youre amazing. now now enough about the sed stuffs. i love you a lot babe and i will continue to ❤️. now i can start thanking you for everything youve done kekeee :> thank you for being there for me even when i go through tough times or even when im just a little too serious about work and a little agitated, youre always there to set me straight and remind me that youre with me though my problems and it really boosts my mood as well as takes away bad thoughts :> even when youre busy you take out a few minutes of your precious time to make sure im okay, even if its just the smallest thing, youre still there and i really appreciate that. You always reassure me that everything will be okay and i really trust what you say, and i will continue to and im so thankful youre not hiding things from me i really respect that. I know how hard it is to share sometimes  and i feel so honored that you feel im worthy of knowing your problems. I really am thankful for everything you do for me and for everything you are. Im so honored to know you and to be loved by you. I respect everything you do for me as well as how you do your best in everything you do, you have such a strong soul :> i enjoy every moment with you and I hope we will continue to spend more time together everyday ❤️
I love you with all my heart Isabel and i wish that one day you can too
simp's pmis ❤️

**Her**, [16/2/22 6:31 PM]

Happy Valentine's day! You asked me for a paragraph this morning but I told you I had no time to do it because I was sick. It is definitely an excuse for you. I’m sick with covid but if the stuff is done for you it’s considered done, anything for you is considered done. I’m sorry I found an excuse to tell you I had no time at all but here it is, your paragraph. I’m not sure how long this paragraph will be but stick with me okay I’ll assure you right now it’s all worth reading. Heads up though, at some parts I seem like I might not make sense because my brain doesn’t like cooperating with me on this fever. Please bear with me if I don't make sense. I'm trying my best to make my brain work along with my heart and soul.

Anyways enough of me, let’s talk about you, the quote on quote perfect golden boy as called by some people. You’ve been under the pressure of people expecting alot from you haven’t you and sometimes you feel weak and helpless when you’re unable to complete the task you’re told to or given to you. You feel hurt when you’ve completed the task however they don’t appreciate your effort at all. You’ve been told what you do always doesn’t matter because to them it means absolutely nothing and they tell you don’t bother trying at all. But you never fail to disappoint at all, you still continue working hard despite the shit people throw at you, despite all the negative feedback people give you no matter how good your work turns out to be after a bunch of effort. Here I’m going to tell you and let you know that the effort you put in for everything you do is honestly immaculate. I know sometimes I seem like I’m losing interest in doing things, but that’s not the case at all, in fact I’m planning more and more activities for us to act on, rather than just enjoying the distance. Screw what other people say about all the things you do badly and never acknowledge the good things you do, they’re so not worth listening to at all. They just make you mentally and physically drained, something you don’t deserve to go through at all.

Knowing you from 2021 and looking back now, I know I’ve said this a couple hundred times, however it is true and I’ll keep on saying it until you get it in your skull. You, a beautiful soul, have been through so much, I can see you getting better everyday without fail. You might think oh it’s just a little improvement, but each improvement matters even if it’s 1% or down to 0.1%. I'm getting more proud of you by the day passes, the more you do for me and the more you do for yourself is honestly surprising to me as you always go all in like you’re in a casino table top, you put in all your effort just to give me something or make me something that’s really out of my expectations. Especially when you spent the whole day on Blender just to make me a single flower which took a lot of maths, formula and arranging. Sometimes I wake up in the middle of the night, I'm no longer worried I would wake up crying alone because whenever I send a text you’re always there. Although you tell me that you can’t be here with me 24/7, you still manage to spend most of your time being happy with me and accompany me whenever I need company, reassuring me whenever I need reassurance from the bad thoughts and overthinking that occurs. I no longer have to worry if you would put in effort on what I tell you to do because you put in all you have.

You say baking isn’t your hobby isn’t what you enjoy doing but you still do it as if you like it and it surprises me how someone doesn’t like it but is able to ace at such a thing they dislike. You tell me that you dislike when people call you young and inexperienced, therefore you always try your best to be mature in front of other people and make sure you don’t do anything wrong in case they find anything to judge you with. People out there really take anything you do wrong or incomplete to judge you with which can be very hurtful to you on a daily basis and to your mental health itself. I'm glad your mental health is getting better after getting to know you and helping you throughout your journey of healing.

Sometimes I make fun or poke at you about being a thing with someone in your past, but know that I do not mean it at all. I remind you of it from time to time hoping that you’d truthfully learnt your lesson by trusting people and putting effort in people who never give a single shit if you’re alive or not. It can hurt very much when you realise that someone you’re putting in effort for isn’t giving you the same energy back or they’re taking the energy you give them to pass it on to someone else without truly considering how you’d feel if you found out they did so. A lot of people come and go in our lives but that doesn't mean no one's ever gonna stay with you when you’re fighting an important battle. Each step you take is a step closer to me and a step closer to the goal you’re visualising in your near or far future. You can come across a lot of obstacles that push you down, like you being unable to take any more subjects in school which creates a blockage in your learning experience. Like your extra time being put in art only to tell you it’s ugly. It's very hard to take on criticism when you feel like the whole world is against you/ not in your favour of things you decide to do.

As mentioned above and in this whole paragraph itself, I acknowledge and will always appreciate the things you do for the world and especially for me as an individual. I’ve always thought that no one would care for the effort I put in, the care I would have for them. I always thought that no one would appreciate anything I do for them, I used to be like you, spending time and money on people who won’t bother to do the same or even look me in the eye. You came along and it made me realise not only there’s people who will realise the good in me but also know that I’m worth fighting for in the long run. It’s only been a month but the acknowledgement has really lessened my overthinking and chances of crying at any time of the day. While I’m writing this you’re probably overthinking why I’m ignoring you or not wanting to spend time with you and you’re probably scaring yourself and overthinking by yourself how come i’m not telling you what i’m doing but surprise this is what i’m doing. You always say if there’s a problem I should let you know rather than keeping it to myself all alone and crying about it. You always worry about me more than you worry about yourself. I also try my best to stay next to you because you’re the only home I can run to whenever I wanna be myself, the only place which doesn’t judge me for being who I am. It’s so hard to find someone who really cares about me and lets me be myself despite all the problems I bring to the table.

You constantly worry about how your behaviour or the things you say might affect your relationship/ friendship in general, your constant check ups on me make me feel more loved each day and I realise the feeling of being loved by someone isn’t that bad after all.You spend most of your money and allowance on me to keep me happy with little gifts even if it’s a tiny keychain or a crystal i have from my wishlist.

Thank you for everything you’ve done, from reading about the things i tell you i have problems with, to include yourself in my interests just to have something to talk about with me so I don't feel left out or bored, When you go out with friends you often send me telegram bubbles or video call me straight to make sure i’m feeling alright when you’re out. You might have your problems and bad habits but I'm willing to deal with all of them just as you’re willing to deal with mine on the worst days possible. My mood swings come and go just like yours but we’re always here for each other, the more we stay together I feel a deeper connection between the both of us, despite the distance.The distance between us is still in malaysia but it feels so far, however i believe that one day you’ll come to meet me with a promise ring and flowers just so i know you’re serious about us. You’re allowed to be yourself around me, you’re allowed to be crying or upset just because you’re feeling bummed out when something doesn’t go your way.

Thank you for postponing valentines day so we could spend time together however im really sorry i got covid and now i’m having a fever so I dont have the physical strength capacity to be spending all of my time on you so here’s a apology letter as well from the bottom of my heart. As I said, from the bottom of my heart I appreciate you like my own self like my own soul , everything you do matters and I’m so glad I met you and you were here even on my worst days possible. I hope that one day I can finally love you full heartedly with all I have and all I am.

Yours Truly,
Isabel <3