> [!para]
> This story is meant to be a simple retelling of my service trip to a small village in Langkap, Malaysia. Among all the fresh experiences from going somewhere I am unfamiliar with, my most important takeaway from the trip is that there are no requirements for you to be happy and satisfied. This journey was significant to me because it allows me to see a wider picture when processing myself and the world around it: it gives me more alternative perspectives to understand the world from. Mainly, it allowed me to understand that life is what you make of it and your mentality drives how you perceive the world through a blunt example to my face. Broadly, I believe that people should be able to have or understand these experiences in order to have a more complete image of the world.
> 
> I conducted a significant amount of research in google maps, exploring the areas near to where I went to re-spark my imagination of what the area looked and felt like. I studied the architecture of the buildings, the structure of the roads, and even what vegetation and foliage there was. Although I was unable to find the actual places we were on Google street view, reviewing the general area was still highly valuable to me. I also dug up hundreds of old images I had saved from the time and went through them looking for anything interesting. These images allowed me to relive my time there and write a more faithful retelling of it. These images gave me more direct of a look back into where I was and what I was doing.
> 
> I chose the story to be told as first person as the story is a retelling of my experiences. I chose for it to be somewhat reflective, with my current thoughts mixed in with the thoughts I had at the time as I feel like my time there without my own reflection at the end was less impactful. Although my final product was relatively short, I feel like it still has the main ideas of what I was trying to convey: my development of thought throughout my journey to this village. I also chose to make the comic in full color, with cell shading, much like most other hand-drawn comics. I chose to have my comic look this way as it is more familiar to other comics, solidifying its position as a comic, but also as the details of every object in this story are not the focus, but mainly act as a guide to my own thoughts. I wanted to use colors very similar to what they physically were in real life, with the exception of people. For the people, I chose to use abstract shapes to represent their feelings as their heads, and simple solid black strokes to represent their body, similar to some comics. I chose to use this simplistic rendering of the people as once again the details did not matter for the goals of the comic, only their emotions and actions did.
> 
> Some fairly basic influences for this comic include Nichijou, a daily life-like anime with flat shading, yet expressive story lines and characters, and lethal company, for their strongly stylized cell-shading in the game. There was not much influence in the storytelling itself as it was a highly personal retelling, but the artistic style of which I chose to draw it as was highly influenced by these two pieces of media. Nichijou, much like my own comic attempted to copy, lacks details in things that are non-essential to the story at hand, with only relevant and important details being included in the story, both for saving on the cost of animating, but also as a balance between detail and story. Lethal company also takes a similar route, with the game focusing on gameplay more than eyecandy. I attempted to do something similar with my own comic, with limited success, as I would have developed the style more if time allowed.
> 
> Writing the story out did not change much about what I thought of it as I already somewhat mentally journal my significant life events such as this. This comic was mainly just a rehashing of what I already thought and also acted as a way for me to convert my worded thoughts into other art-forms. The main thing that has evolved across my time working on this project however, was how much I thought was essential to the story. I began this project with the goal of telling the story exactly as I had pictured it and organized it in my mind, but over time realized both my limited modes of expression and length of story were both factors that required me to rethink how I took on this project. Ultimately, I cut many details and pieces of the story that I thought were relevant in order to produce a comic that would satisfy the needs of this final project.
