> [!para]
> My computer science teacher told us on the very first day on AP Computer Science that "Data without insight is meaningless." I could not agree more. Just like the problem with AI training models these days, there is plenty of data, but there is not much meaningful (meaning labeled data) available. Similarly, rigorous reasoning without a direction to focus towards would be meaningless. In my life there have been several times when I was dedicated to completing something, but I was dedicated to the wrong cause. Effort without direction is meaningless. Back when I was much younger I made the most coveted soccer team. It was my greatest achievement ever, I thought back then. I was so proud that I made the team that I would train vigorously multiple times a week, without ever assessing why I invested the time into refining and strengthening my skills in soccer. I learned a lot through this experience not only in skills and teamwork but the intention of playing soccer was not because of my love for soccer, but more so to be in a prestigious team. Naturally, my interest and dedication to train dwindled as the novelty of being part of the team wore off. Had soccer been my love and passion, this would not have happened. 
> 
> Dedication on its own has no point unless you are being dedicated towards a cause you want to achieve. It may seem obvious that you would only ever be dedicated towards things you are sure you would continue to love and enjoy, but without proper assessment and thought it could lead to an unsustainable effort. Getting onto the soccer team blinded me from thinking if this is really what I wanted to achieve, leading me to reverse the two virtues of cause then dedication.

