> [!para]
> ###### Trevor Nichols
> ###### Ms. Berg
> ###### 18/12/2023
> ###### MUTH 104
> # Maple Leaf Rag
> 
> The Maple Leaf Rag is a ragtime piece composed by Scott Joplin and released in 1899. This was one of Scott Joplin's most well formulated compositions, which received much acclamation for its revolutionary rhythms, transitions, and themes. The Maple Leaf Rag aided Scott Joplin's goal of popularizing ragtime through its swing-like and upbeat melodies.
> 
>Ragtime was originally a modification of a march but turned into its own distinct style because of its repetitive use of syncopation. It is most commonly written in $\frac{2}{4}$ but can also be written in $\frac{4}{4}$. Occasionally it can be written in $\frac{3}{4}$ and be called a ragtime waltz. Most commonly the form of a rag piece will follow the patterns of $AABBACCC'$, $AABBCCDD$, or $AABBCCA$, although the maple leaf rag does not follow one of these strictly. Ragtime pieces also frequently feature a bridge section in the dominant key which may be repeated between any two sections throughout the piece. The maple leaf rag does feature a section in the dominant key, which I have analysed to be the bridge, mainly because of the tonal center and difference in theme.
>
> Scott Joplin, the composer of *Maple Leaf Rag*, was the son of a freed slave and as a result of the times, had a harsh upbringing. Initially, he worked as a railroad worker, later on also taking on music as a hobby. Music eventually became his way of life and he quit his job to further pursue it. This ended up making his professional life significantly more taxing upon him as he struggled to make enough money to stay afloat. His main goal was to make ragtime an upper-class listening experience, an art belonging in theaters and concert halls for the rich as well an enjoyable for the poor. Towards the end of his life he failed to find any investors to help support his composition or orchestration of his pieces. This led him to attempt to orchestrate one of his pieces *Treemonisha* by himself. He died of syphilis at the age of 48, with *Treemonisha* incomplete.
> 
> Out of Scott Joplin's works, *Maple Leaf Rag* is up there amongst his most famous pieces *The Entertainer*, *Solace*, and *Stoptime Rag*. It has a time signature of $\frac{2}{4}$ and follows the form of $AABBACC$ with a repeated bridge before the double $C$ section. The piece features a lot of $V-I$ resolutions and generally follows the 18th century chord progression system tightly apart from a few instances of borrowing chords from the minor key, and the supertonic key. The piece is in $A\flat$ major, and switches to the dominant ($E\flat$ major) during the bridge. The rhythms feature a lot of syncopation — much like the rest of ragtime and the melodies feature a lot of octaves and arpeggios. It was originally written for piano, but also orchestrated later. The original left hand mainly exists to accompany the melody in the right hand, utilizing chords and octaves to accentuate particular points in the song. The right hand plays the melody, often in syncopation with the left hand, which also features a lot of arpeggios. The original piece did not have lyrics, but during certain performances, lyrics by Sydney Brown would be sung along to it - describing a poor man 
> 
> Although the original 
