# 1

To the right you are given the phase diagram for the Pb-Sn system (binary eutectic). Say we have a 30 wt% Sn – 70 wt% Pb alloy that is gradually cooled from 300°C to 50°C.

## a

Is this a hypreutectic or hypoeutectic alloy?

> [!answer]
> 

## b

Describe the microstructure that would develop during cooling (can use pictures, but be sure that everything is legible and clearly labeled). Be sure to specify **both** the *phases* and *microconstituents* present.

## c

What is the composition (in wt% Sn) of each of the microconstituents present after cooling?

## d

How is the resulting microstructure different from what would be developed if the same cooling regime was applied to a 10 wt% Sn - 90 wt% Pb alloy?

# 2

Find a research paper that uses phase diagrams to inform the design and/or analysis of a particular material. Provide the name and citation for the paper. In a few sentences, specify the following:

## a

The material system/phase diagram being used (e.g. Cu-Zn, Sn-Pb, etc.)

## b

The desired design result (e.g. changing a particular property, troubleshooting a manufacturing process)

## c

How the authors used phase diagrams to achieve their result

# 3

To the right is the iron-iron carbide phase diagram, which we have examined in class. As a reminder, this phase diagram extends from 0 wt% C to 6.70 wt% C, with an intermetallic compound (cementite, Fe3C) existing at 6.70 wt% C. Though we have mostly used the lever rule in simpler phase diagrams, but we can also employ it to determine mass/weight fractions for more complex systems. Consider a 0.25 wt% C – 95.75 wt% Fe alloy.

## a

Using the lever rule, what are the mass fractions of the α and γ phases at 750°C? Show all work.

## b

What are the mass fractions at 600°C? Show all work. (Hint: remember that below the eutectic isotherm, the compositions of each phase are determined by the compositions at the eutectic isotherm)

# 4

Name the 2 stages involved in the formation of particles of a new phase. Briefly describe each, including the driving forces behind each stage.

# 5

Consider two different microstructures:


In terms of the *driving forces behind nucleation and diffusion*, why do these microstructures develop differently? (Hint: think about homogeneous vs heterogeneous nucleation)