I went to Zhanda's recitation

# 1

Calculate and compare: the change in thermal energy associated with  heating an atoms from room temperature, $300 K$, to $1500 K$ using the expression

$E_{thermal}=k_bT$

To the energy of a photon with a wavelength of $500 nm$ using the expression

$E_{photon}=\frac{h_{planck}c}{\lambda}$

Where:
- $k_b=1.3806503\times10^{-23}~ \frac{m^2kg}{s^2K}$
- $h_{planck}=6.62607015\times 10^{−34}~ \frac{J}{Hz}$
- $c=299792458~ \frac{m}{s}$

> [!answer]
> 
> $300K\to1500K$
> $E_{thermal}=k_bT$
> $E_{thermal}=k_b(1200K)$
> $E_{thermal}=1.6569\times10^{-20}~ J$
>  
> $E_{photon}=\frac{h_{planck}c}{\lambda}$
> $E_{photon}=\frac{h_{planck}c}{500nm}$
> $E_{photon}=\frac{6.62607015\times 10^{-34}~ \frac{J}{Hz}299792458~ \frac{m}{s}}{5\times10^{-7}~m}$
> $E_{photon}=3.97\times10^{-19}~J$
> 
> ---
> 
> There is around 25x more energy in the photon that that of the increase of kinetic energy in the heating of the atom.

# 2

If aluminum is heated from room temperature to its melting point (660°C) it expands 1.5%. What is the bond length at room temperature and what is it just below its melting point?

> [!answer]
> $25\degree C\to660\degree C\qquad:1.5\%\uparrow$
> Aluminium has a radius of $0.1431~nm$
> 
> $0.1431~nm\cdot1.015=0.1452~nm$
> 
> ---
> 
> The bond length is $0.1431~nm$ normally and $0.1452~nm$ at its melting point

# 3

The book makes the distinction between atomic structure and crystal structure. Briefly explain the difference in your own words.

> [!answer]
> Atomic structure is the structure within the atom: protons, neutrons, electrons, charge, etc. But crystal structure is the structure of the arrangement of multiple atoms and how they relate to each other.

# 4

The atomic packing factor is defined in the book as “the sum of the sphere volumes of all atoms within a unit cell (assuming the atomic hard-sphere model) divided by the unit cell volume.” How is the radius of the atomic hard-model described in the book.

> [!answer]
> "When describing crystalline structures, atoms (or ions) are thought of as being solid spheres having well-defined diameters. This is termed the atomic hard sphere model in which spheres representing nearest-neighbor atoms touch one another."
> 
> The radius at which the atoms would touch each other is how the radius is defined.

# 5

Showing all your work, show that the atomic packing factor for body-centered cubic is 68% and for face-centered cubic is 74%.

> [!answer]
> BCC: $68\%$
> 
> 2 atoms per cube, radius of $\frac{h}{\sqrt{2}}$
> 
> FCC: $74\%$
> 
> 4 atoms per cube,
