# 1

A cylindrical specimen of a titanium alloy having an elastic modulus of 107 GPa (15.5 x 106 psi) and an original diameter of 3.8 mm (0.15 in.) experiences only elastic deformation when a tensile load of 2000 N (450 lbf) is applied. Compute the maximum length of the specimen before deformation if the maximum allowable elongation is 0.42 mm (0.0165 in.).

# 2

A cylindrical specimen of aluminum having a diameter of 0.505 in. (12.8 mm) and a gauge length of 2.000 in. (50.800 mm) is pulled in tension. Use the load–elongation characteristics shown in the following table to complete parts (a) through (f).

-tx-
| Load  || Length ||
| N     | lbf   | mm     | in.   |
| ----- | ----- | ------ | ----- |
| 0     | 0     | 50.800 | 2.000 |
| 7330  | 1650  | 50.851 | 2.002 |
| 15100 | 3400  | 50.902 | 2.004 |
| 23100 | 5200  | 50.952 | 2.006 |
| 30400 | 6850  | 51.003 | 2.008 |
| 34400 | 7750  | 51.054 | 2.010 |
| 38400 | 8650  | 51.308 | 2.020 |
| 41300 | 9300  | 51.816 | 2.040 |
| 44800 | 10100 | 52.832 | 2.080 |
| 46200 | 10400 | 53.848 | 2.120 |
| 47300 | 10650 | 54.864 | 2.160 |
| 47500 | 10700 | 55.880 | 2.200 |
| 46100 | 10400 | 56.896 | 2.240 |
| 44800 | 10100 | 57.658 | 2.270 |
| 42600 | 9600  | 58.420 | 2.300 |
| 36400 | 8200  | 59.182 | 2.330 |

## a

Plot the data as engineering stress versus engineering strain.

## b

Compute the modulus of elasticity.

## c

Determine the yield strength at a strain offset of 0.002.

## d

Determine the tensile strength of this alloy.

## e

What is the approximate ductility, in percent elongation?

## f

Compute the modulus of resilience.

# 3

A cylindrical specimen of a brass alloy 7.5 mm (0.30 in.) in diameter and 90.0 mm (3.54 in.) long is pulled in tension with a force of 6000 N (1350 lbf); the force is subsequently released.

## a

Compute the final length of the specimen at this time. The tensile stress–strain behavior for this alloy is shown in Figure 7.12.

## b
Compute the final specimen length when the load is increased to 16,500 N (3700 lbf) and then released.

# 4

From the stress–strain data for poly(methyl methacrylate) shown in Figure 7.24, determine the modulus of elasticity and tensile strength at room temperature \[20°C (68°F)\], and compare these values with those given in Tables 7.1 and 7.2

# 5

Find a reference on the internet that gives a value for the tensile strength of optical glass fiber made from silica.