# 1

To provide some perspective on the dimensions of atomic defects, consider a metal specimen that has a dislocation density of $10^4~ mm^{-2}$. Suppose that all the dislocations in $1000~ mm^3$ were somehow removed and linked end to end. How far (in miles) would this chain extend? Now suppose that the density is increased to $10^{10}~ mm^{−2}$ by cold working. What would be the chain length of dislocations in $1000~ mm^3$ of material?

# 2

Consider two edge dislocations of opposite sign and having slip planes that are separated by several atomic distances as indicated in the following diagram. Briefly describe the defect that results when these two dislocations become aligned with each other.

# 22

## a

Describe in your own words the three strengthening mechanisms discussed in this chapter (i.e., grain size reduction, solid-solution strengthening, and strain hardening). Be sure to explain how dislocations are involved in each of the strengthening techniques.

## b

Use the internet to find metal that for sale that is advertised as strengthened as each of the methods listed in Part a. (Jargon: Metal that has been processed to have a small grain size is commonly called “fine grained.” “Cold working” is a term commonly used to described processing that strain hardens a metal.)

# 29

Two previously undeformed specimens of the same metal are to be plastically deformed by reducing their cross-sectional areas. One has a circular cross section, and the other is rectangular; during deformation, the circular cross section is to remain circular, and the rectangular is to remain rectangular. Their original and deformed dimensions are as follows:

	|||