# HW 2

## 1.7

### 1

For the systems described by the following equations, with the input $x(t)$ and output $y(t)$, determine which of the systems are linear and which are nonlinear.

#### a

$\frac{dy(t)}{dt}+2y(t)=x^{2}(t)$

> [!answer]
> No, as $x$ is squared on the right side of the equation, making it not follow the superposition principle.
> 
> It does not respond linearly to scaling:
> Let $x_{1}(t)=kx(t)$
> $x_{1}^{2}(t)=2y_{1}(t)+\frac{dy_{1}(t)}{dt}$
> $\implies k^{2}x^{2}(t)=\frac{2}{k^{2}}y_{1}(t)+\frac{d~y(t)/k^{2}}{dt}$
> If the system were linear, $y_{1}(t)=ky(t)$
> However, $y_{1}(t)=k^{2}y(t)$
> 
> Therefore this system is not linear.

#### b

$\frac{dy(t)}{dt}+3ty(t)=t^{2}x(t)$

> [!answer]
> Yes, this system is linear as all $x$ and $y$ terms are linearly related.

#### c

$3y(t)+2=x(t)$

#### d

$\frac{dy(t)}{dt}+y^{2}(t)=x(t)$

#### e

$\frac{dy(t)}{dt}^{2}+2y(t)=x(t)$

#### f

$\frac{dy(t)}{dt}+y(t)\sin t=\frac{dx(t)}{dt}+2x(t)$

#### g

$\frac{dy(t)}{dt}+2y(t)=x(t)\frac{dx(t)}{dt}$

#### h

$y(t)=\int\limits_{-\infty}^{t}x(\tau)d\tau$

### 2

For the systems described by the following equations, with the input $x(t)$ and output $y(t)$, explain with reasons which of the systems are time-invariant parameter systems and which are time-varying-parameter systems.

#### a

$y(t)=x(t-2)$

#### b

$y(t)=x(-t)$

#### c

$y(t)=x(at)$

#### d

$y(t)=tx(t-2)$

#### e

$y(t)=\int\limits_{-5}^{5}x(\tau)d\tau$

#### f

$y(t)=\left( \frac{dx(t)}{dt} \right)^{2}$

### 4

Input voltage $x(t)$ applied to an inverting op-amp follower circuit produces output $y(t)$ according to

$y(t+t_{p})=\begin{cases}-V_{ref}&x(t)>V_{ref}\\V_{ref}&x(t)<-V_{ref}\\-x(t)&\text{otherwise}\end{cases}$

where op-amp reference voltage $V_{ref}$ and propagation delay $t_{p}$ are both positive constants. Answer the following questions yes and no, and provide mathematical justification for each answer.

#### a

Is this system BIBO-stable?

#### b

Is the system causal?

#### d

Is the system linear?

#### f

Is the system time invariant?

### 10

A continuous-time system is given by

$y(t)=0.5\int\limits_{-\infty}^{\infty}x(\tau)[\delta(t-\tau)-\delta(t-\tau)]~d\tau$

Recall that $\delta(t)$ designates the Dirac delta function.

#### a

Explain what this system does.

#### b

Is this system BIBO-stable? Justify your answer.

#### c

Is this system linear? Justify your answer.

#### e

Is this system causal? Justify your answer.

#### f

Is the system time invariant? Justify your answer.

## 1.8

### 2

For the circuit depicted in Fig. P1.8-2, find the differential equations relating outputs $y_{1}(t)$ and $y_{2}(t)$ to the input $x(t)$.

### 3



### 5

## 1.11

### 1

### 3
