# HW 3

## 2.2

### 3

A real LTIC system with input $x(t)$ and output $y(t)$ is described by the following constant-coefficient linear differential equation:

$(D^{3}+9D)[y(t)]=(2D^{3}+1)[x(t)]$

#### a

What is the characteristic equation of this system?

> [!answer]
> $r(r^{2}+9)$

#### b

What are the characteristic modes of this system?

> [!answer]
> $r\in\{0, \pm 3i\}$
> 
> Our modes are $1$, $e^{-3it}$, and $e^{3it}$

#### c

Assuming $y_{zir}(0)=4$, $\dot y_{zir}(0)=-18$, and $\ddot y_{zir}(0)=0$, determine this system's zero-input response $y_{zir}(t)$. Simplify $y_{zir}(t)$ to include only real terms (i.e. no $j$'s should appear in your answer)

> [!answer]
> $y_{zir}(t)=A+Be^{3it}+Ce^{-3it}$
> 
> ---
> 
> $y_{zir}(0)=4=A+B+C$
> $\dot y_{zir}(0)=-18=3Bi-3Ci$
> $\ddot y_{zir}(0)=0=-9B-9C$
> 
> $\begin{bmatrix}1&1&1\\0&3i&-3i\\0&-9&-9\end{bmatrix}\begin{bmatrix}A\\B\\C\end{bmatrix}=\begin{bmatrix}4\\-18\\0\end{bmatrix}$
> 
> $\begin{bmatrix}A\\B\\C\end{bmatrix}=\begin{bmatrix}4\\3i\\-3i\end{bmatrix}$
> $y_{zir}(t)=4+3i(e^{3it}-e^{-3it})$
> $y_{zir}(t)=4+3i(2i\sin 3t)$
> $y_{zir}(t)=4-6\sin 3t$

```python
from sympy import symbols, solve
from sympy.matrices import Matrix

A, B, C = symbols("A B C")

R = Matrix([[1, 1, 1], [0, 3j, -3j], [0, 9, 9]])
I = Matrix([[A, B, C]]).T
V = Matrix([[4, -18, 0]]).T

s = solve([R*I - V], A, B, C)
display(I.subs(s))
```

### 11

A system is described by a constant-coefficient linear differential equation and has zero-input response given by $y_{0}(t)=2e^{-t}+3$

#### a

Is it possible for the system's characteristic equation to be $\lambda+1=0$? Justify your answer.

> [!answer]
> $\lambda=-1$
> $y_{zir}(t)=Ae^{-t}$
> 
> Our equation does not fit that format. So, no.

#### b

Is it possible for the system's characteristic equation to be $\sqrt{3}(\lambda^{2}+\lambda)=0$? Justify your answer.

> [!answer]
> $\lambda\in\{0,-1\}$
> $y_{zir}(t)=Ae^{-t}+B$
> 
> Our equation does fit. So, yes.

#### c

Is it possible for the system's characteristic equation to be $\lambda(\lambda+1)^{2}=0$? Justify your answer.

> [!answer]
> $\lambda\in\{0,-1,-1\}$
> $y_{zir}(t)=Ate^{-t}+Be^{-t}+C$
> 
> Our equation does fit. So, yes.

### 12

Consider the circuit of Fig. P2-2-12. Using operator notation, this system can be described as $(D+a_{1})[y(t)]=(b_{0}D+b_{1})[x(t)]$

#### a

Determine the constants $a_{1}$, $b_{0}$, and $b_{1}$ in terms of the system components $R$, $R_{f}$, and $C$.

> [!answer]
> $i=\frac{x(t)-v_{c}(t)}{R}$
> $i=C\dot v_{c}(t)$
> $y(t)=-R_{f}i$
> 
> ---
> 
> $y(t)=-\frac{R_{f}}{R}x(t)-v_{c}(t)$
> $\dot y(t)=-\frac{R_{f}}{R}\dot x(t)-\dot v_{c}(t)$
> $\dot y(t)=-\frac{R_{f}}{R}\dot x(t)-\frac{x(t)-v_{c}(t)}{RC}$
> $RC\dot y(t)=-CR_{f}\dot x(t)-x(t)+v_{c}(t)$
> $RC\dot y(t)+y(t)=-CR_{f}\dot x(t)-\frac{R+R_{f}}{R}x(t)$
> $\dot y(t)+ \frac{1}{RC}y(t)=-\frac{R_{f}}{R}\dot x(t)-\frac{R+R_{f}}{R^{2}C}x(t)$
> 
> $\left( D+ \frac{1}{RC} \right)y(t)=\left(-\frac{DR_{f}}{R}-\frac{R+R_{f}}{R^{2}C}\right)x(t)$
> 
> ---
> 
> $a_{1}=\frac{1}{RC}$
> $b_{0}=-\frac{R_{f}}{R}$
> $b_{1}=-\frac{R+R_{f}}{R^{2}C}$

#### b

Assume that $R=300~k\ohm$, $R_{f}=1.2~M\ohm$, and $C=5\micro F$. What is the zero-input response $y_{0}(t)$ of this system, assuming $v_{C}(0)=1~V$?



## 2.3

### 1

### 2

### 3

